Weiss, M., et al. (2007). "Effect of long-term administration of the antidepressant drug milnacipran on serotonergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission in the rat hippocampus." Life Sciences 81(2): 166-176.

	The effect of a long-term administration of the antidepressant milnacipran on the function of the serotonergic (5-HT) and noradrenergic (NE) systems was studied using single cell recording of CA3 hippocampal pyramidal cells in chloral hydrate-anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats, and in vitro [H-3]5-HT release measurement from hippocampal slices. The sensitivity of neither the extrasynaptic nor that of the postsynaptic 5-HT I A receptors of the pyramidal neurons was altered, as indicated by their unchanged responsiveness to the microiontophoretic application of 5 HT, and by the unchanged effect of the electrical stimulation at low frequency of the ascending 5-HT bundle, respectively. Increasing the frequency of stimulation (from 1 to 5 Hz) decreased its efficacy in control rats; the milnacipran treatment abolished this phenomenon. This cannot be attributed to a desensitisation of the terminal 5-HT1B autoreceptor, since the suppressive effect of 5-HT agonist 5-carboxyamidotryptamine on [H-3]5-HT release was enhanced in milnacipran-treated rats. As for the NE system, the unchanged suppressing effect of microiontophoretic applications of NE and that of the 5 Hz stimulation in the locus coeruleus (LC) on the firing activity of pyramidal neurons indicates that the milnacipran treatment not altered the sensitivity of extrasynaptic alpha(2)- and postsynaptic alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors on pyramidal cells, as well as that of the presynaptic alpha(2)-autoreceptor on NE terminals. The decreased inhibitory effect of NE on the [H-3]5-HT release in milnacipran-treated rats revealed that this treatment results in a desensitisation of the presynaptic alpha(2)-heteroreceptor located on serotonergic terminals. Taken together with the decreased suppressive effect of a low frequency of stimulation of the NE tract, the present results suggest that long-term milnacipran treatment enhances the efficacy of the 5-HT and reduces that of the NE neurotransmission. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

