Tokarski, K. and M. Bijak (1996). "Antidepressant-induced adaptive changes in the effects of 5-HT, 5-HT1A and 5-HT4 agonists on the population spike recorded in hippocampal CA1 cells do not involve presynaptic effects on excitatory synaptic transmission." Pol J Pharmacol 48(6): 565-573.

	Effects of repeated treatment with antidepressant drugs on the reactivity of CA1 neurons to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropyl-amino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT)--the 5-HT1A receptor agonist, and the zacopride-5-HT4 receptor agonist were examined in the rat hippocampus ex vivo. We sought to assess whether a presynaptic action of 5-HT receptor agonists on excitatory synaptic transmission contributed to the antidepressant-induced adaptive changes in responsiveness of pyramidal neurons to 5-HT1A and 5-HT4 receptor activation. The dendritic population excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) evoked in the stratum radiatum of the CA1 region by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway, was employed as a measure of the excitatory amino acid-mediated synaptic transmission, while the population spike recorded simultaneously in the CA1 cell layer was a measure of pyramidal cell excitability. 5-HT (10 microM) and 8-OH-DPAT (1 microM) decreased (by 40 +/- 5% and 30 +/- 7%, respectively), while zacopride (20 microM) increased (by 50 +/- 8%) the amplitude of the population spike. Neither drug had any effect on the slope of the population EPSP. The selective 5-HT1B receptor agonist CGS-12066 had no effect on the population spike or on the EPSP. Repeated treatment (14 days, twice daily, 10 mg/kg po) with imipramine and paroxetine augmented the inhibitory action of 5-HT on the population spike (by 50%), whereas treatment with citalopram and fluvoxamine had no effect. Imipramine and paroxetine, but not fluvoxamine, increased the 8-OH-DPAT-induced inhibition (by 80-100%). All of the antidepressant drugs studied attenuated the excitatory effect of zacopride on the population spike (by 70%). The population EPSPs in slices from rats treated with antidepressant drugs were not affected by 5-HT, 8-OH-DPAT or zacopride. It has been concluded that adaptive changes in the responsiveness of CA1 cells to 5-HT, 8-OH-DPAT and zacopride, induced by repeated administration of antidepressant drugs do not involve presynaptic effects on excitatory synaptic transmission.

