Zhou, J., et al. (2014). "Activation of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors improve stress adaptation." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 231(10): 2067-2075.

	RATIONALE: Serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptors modulate the stress response and have been implicated in the etiology and treatment of depression and anxiety disorders. A reduction in postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor function in limbic areas has consistently been observed following exposure to chronic stress. OBJECTIVES: To investigate the hypothesis that increased activation of 5-HT1A receptors in rats having reduced 5-HT function may improve stress adaptation and the behavioral sequelae commonly associated with chronic stress. METHODS: One hundred forty-four Sprague-Dawley rats received injections of para-chlorophenylalanine to partially deplete 5-HT then were given daily systemic pretreatment with the 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2- (di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), the antagonist, WAY 100635, or vehicle prior to either restraint stress (6 h/day for 10 daily sessions) or control conditions. Anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors were then assessed using the open field and sucrose preference tests. Protein level of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptors was detected by immunohistochemistry and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was determined by in situ hybridization. RESULTS: 8-OH-DPAT pretreatment prior to stress exposure attenuated later stress-induced anxiety- and depression-like behaviors and increased GR and BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus relative to vehicle- and WAY 100635-pretreated, stressed animals. CONCLUSION: The stress-related impairments associated with 5-HT deficiency can be improved by 8-OH-DPAT pretreatment prior to stress exposure and are associated with an augmentation of GR-like immunoreactivity and BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus. It suggested that selective activation of 5-HT1A receptors may be a potential treatment strategy for stress-related disorders such as anxiety and depression.

