Cannizzaro, G. and R. Antona (2007). "Perinatal treatment with a serotonin agonist and learning performance in adolescent rat: interaction with early postnatal handling." Acta Medica Mediterranea 23(1): 21-25.

	Environmental modifications during early stages of life can influence brain development and determine modifications in cognitive functions in offspring. Serotonin system plays an important role in learning and memory function by the 5-HT1A subreceptors. In particular, a reduction of the 5-HT1A response enhances learning and memory performance in rats. Perinatal treatment with 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MT), a non selective serotonergic agonist and early handling, reduces the number of 5-HT1A receptors in neonatal and pre-pubertal rat progeny. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate in adolescent male rats the consequences of perinatal treatment with 5-MT and its interaction with early postnatal handling on learning performance in the "Can test", a motivate, non-aversive, spatial and tactile/visual task. Results show that a single daily injection of 5-MT from gestational day 12 to 21 (1 mg/kg s.c.) and from postnatal day 2 to 18 to pups (0.5 mg/kg s.c.), increases the level of locomotor activity and the number of correct responses, and decreases the number of reference memory errors, compared to vehicle-treated rats. Similar effects are observed following to early, brief maternal separation of the progeny from postnatal day 2 until 21. The interaction between 5-MT and neonatal handling induces a significant increase in the effects of neonatal handling. These results suggest that in adolescent rat offspring, perinatal treatment with 5-MT enhances learning performance in the "Can test", probably due to a reduction of 5-HT1A receptors in areas known to be of importance for cognitive function. Whether the positive effects of the interaction of perinatal 5-MT and neonatal handling could be related to a further damping of the 5-HT1A receptor response is not get addressed, but our data demonstrate that the combination of perinatal 5-MT and neonatal handling is able to induce long-term synergistic effects on learning ability in the adolescent rat offspring.

