Shinagawa, S. (1994). "SEROTONIN PROTECTS C6 GLIOMA-CELLS FROM GLUTAMATE TOXICITY." Neuroscience 59(4): 1043-1050.

	It was recently shown that addition of L-glutamate in millimolar amounts to a culture of C6 glioma cells induced cell death within 24 h. The mechanism for glutamate toxicity in the C6 glioma cells is linked to the inhibition of cystine uptake, leading to glutathione depletion through the cystine/glutamate antiporter (X (c) over bar) system. In the present study, neurotransmitters, whose receptors were localized on the glioma (glial) cells, were evaluated for their ability to protect C6 cells from glutamate toxicity through this amino acid antiporter. Among them, only 100 mu M serotonin suppressed cell death by glutamate in a constant co-existence culture. The suppressive dose of serotonin was relatively low and the half-effective dose was about 35 mu M. 8-Hydroxy-2-(DL-n-propylamino)tetralin, a specific serotonin(1A) agonist, showed a comparable suppression to glutamate damage, while 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane, a specific serotonin(2) agonist, and quipazine, a non-selective serotonin(1B) agonist, did not suppress it. Furthermore, propranolol and pindolol significantly blocked the serotonin effect, but spiperone, mianserin and ketanserin did not block it. These results strongly indicate that this protective action of serotonin to glutamate toxicity was receptor (serotonin(1A)) mediated. Serotonin did not protect the C6 cells from glutathione depletion by glutamate. The cellular level of glutathione was depleted even under the co-existence of serotonin and glutamate. Serotonin induced a significant inhibition of lipid peroxide accumulation in the C6 glioma cells to glutamate exposure and the low rate of lipid peroxide accumulation was controlled. These results suggest that the serotonin action is not due to restoration of cellular glutathione, but due to suppression of some generating processes of lipid peroxide accumulation. This protective function of serotonin against glutamate toxicity could not be seen in the primary cortical and cerebellar neuronal culture to glutamate toxicity, which is thought to be triggered through the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. This novel function of serotonin on the glioma (glial) cell death by glutamate was characterized pharmacologically and its cellular mechanism for protection was discussed in comparison with that of a powerful antioxidant, vitamin E.

