Xiao, W., et al. (2017). "[Effect of acupuncture treatment on gene expression of neurotransmitters of brain tissue in rats with post-stroke depression]." Zhongguo Zhen Jiu 37(6): 637-641.

	OBJECTIVE: To observe the effects of acupuncture on mRNA of the neurotransmitter serotonin transporter (5-HTT), 5-HT1Areceptor (5-HT1AR), norepinephrinealpha2 receptor (NEalpha2R) in brain tissue in rats with post-stroke depression. METHODS: Forty male SD rats were randomly divided into a normal group, a model group, a medication group and an acupuncture group, 10 rats in each one. The model of post-stroke depression was established by occlusion of middle cerebral artery and chronic unpredictable mild stress method. After model was successfully established, the rats in the normal group and model group received no treatment; the rats in medication group were treated with intragastric administration of fluoxetine (2 mg/kg); the rats in acupuncture group were treated with acupuncture at "Baihui" (GV 20), "Fengfu" (GV 16), "Shenmen" (HT 7) and "Taichong" (LR 3) for 20 min, during which manual stimulation was given once, once a day, 7 days as one course, and totally 3 courses were given with an interval of one day between courses. The changes of rat behavior and 5-HT, NE were observed after intervention; the RT-PCR method was applied to observe the mRNA of 5-HTT, 5-HT1AR, NEalpha2R in hippocampus, raphe nucleus and locus coeruleus. RESULTS: After treatment, compared with the normal group, the Zea Longa score in the model group was increased, while sugar water consumption, the number of horizontal and vertical movement of open-field test was reduced (all P<0.01); compared with the model group, the Zea Longa score in the medication group and acupuncture group was reduced, while sugar water consumption, the number of horizontal and vertical movement of open-field test were increased (P<0.01, P<0.05); compared between the medication group and acupuncture group, the behavior changes were not significantly different (all P>0.05). After treatment, compared with the normal group, the content of 5-HT and NE in brain tissue and mRNA expression of 5-HTT, 5-HT1AR in hippocampus, raphe nucleus and locus coeruleus in the model group were reduced (all P<0.01), but the mRNA expression of NEalpha2R was increased (P<0.01);compared with the model group, the content of 5-HT and NE in brain tissue and mRNA expression of 5-HTT, 5-HT1AR in hippocampus, raphe nucleus and locus coeruleus in the medication group and acupuncture group were increased (P<0.01, P<0.05), while the mRNA expression of NEalpha2R was reduced (all P<0.01). The differences between medication group and acupuncture group were not significantly different (all P>0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Acupuncture could significantly improve behavioral change in rats with post-stroke depression, which may be related to the regulation of 5-HT, NE in cerebral cortex as well as mRNA expressions of 5-HTT, 5-HT1AR, NEalpha2R in hippocampus, raphe nucleus and locus coeruleus.

