Soiza-Reilly, M. and K. G. Commons (2011). "Glutamatergic drive of the dorsal raphe nucleus." Journal of Chemical Neuroanatomy 41(4): 247-255.

	The dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) contains the majority of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) neurons in the brain that regulate neural activity in forebrain regions through their widespread projections. DR function is linked to stress and emotional processing, and is implicated in the pathophysiology of affective disorders. Glutamatergic drive of the DR arises from many different brain areas with the capacity to inform the nucleus of sensory, autonomic, endocrine and metabolic state as well as higher order neural function. Imbalance of glutamatergic neurotransmission could contribute to maladaptive 5-HT neurotransmission and represents a potential target for pharmacotherapy. Within the DR, glutamate-containing axon terminals can be identified by their content of one of three types of vesicular glutamate transporter, VGLUT1, 2 or 3. Each of these transporters is heavily expressed in particular brain areas such that their content within axons correlates with the afferent's source. Cortical sources of innervation to the DR including the medial prefrontal cortex heavily express VGLUT1 whereas subcortical sources primarily express VGLUT2. Within the DR, many local neurons responsive to substance P contain VGLUT3, and these provide a third source of excitatory drive to 5-HT cells. Moreover VGLUT3 is present, with or without 5-HT, in output pathways from the DR. 5-HT and non-5-HT neurons receive and integrate glutamatergic neurotransmission through multiple subtypes of glutamate receptors that have different patterns of expression within the DR. Interestingly, excitatory drive provided by glutamatergic neurotransmission is closely opposed by feedback inhibition mediated by 5-HT1A receptors or local GABAergic circuits. Understanding the intricacies of these local networks and their checks and balances, may help identify how potential imbalances could cause psychopathology and illuminate strategies for therapeutic manipulation. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

