Wang, W. H., et al. (2003). "Lack of effects by tricyclic, antidepressant and serotonin inhibitors on anorexia in MCG 101 tumor-bearing mice with eicosanoid-related cachexia." Nutrition 19(1): 47-53.

	OBJECTIVES: Anorexia is a major clinical problem in large number of patients with advanced cancer disease. Serotonergic mechanisms. are assumed to play a role in the process of feeding behavior during normal and pathologic circumstances, which may also involve cancer anorexia according to previous experimental and clinical studies. METHODS: In the present study, we evaluated the effect of the tricyclic, antidepressants desipramine (7.5 mg . kg(-1) . d(-1), intraperitoneal) and imipramine (2 to 5 mg . kg(-1) . d(-1), intraperitoneal) the serotonin synthesis inhibitor para-chlorophenylalamine (300 mg . kg(-1); d(-1), intraperitoneal), the serotonin receptor 5-HT2C antagonist cyproheptadine (5 mg . kg(-1) . d(-1), intraperitoneal) and the selective serotoin re-uptake inhibitor citalopram (20 mg . kg(-1) . d(-1), intraperitoneal) on anorexia in MCG-101 tumor-bearing, mice, a model with significant anorexia and cachexia sensitive to cyclooxygenase inhibition. Also, MCG 101-bearing mice develop well-recognized alterations in brain trypiophan/serotonin metabolism as increased Trp, 5-HPT, and 5-HIAA during tumor progression; RESULTS: Daily provision of desipramine, imipramine, para-chloropheylalanine, cyproheptadine, and citalopram at doses that cause behavioral and metabolic, alterations in normal mice did not alter food intake or body weight in tumor-bearing and healthy control mice. Also, the treatments did not decrease elevated plasma concentrations of interleukin-6 and prostaglandin E-2 in the tumor-bearing mice. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, our results do not support previous observations that serotonin metabolism itself is an major factor behind anorexia in tumor-bearing animals in general. Rather, other mechanisms, such as eicosanoid and nitric oxide-dependent pathways, seem to be more important for induction of anorexia along tumor progression in the present model., (C)Elsevier. Science Inc. 2003.

