Trevisan da Rocha, J., et al. (2012). "Effects of diphenyl diselenide on depressive-like behavior in ovariectomized mice submitted to subchronic stress: involvement of the serotonergic system." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 222(4): 709-719.

	RATIONALE: The transition to menopause is associated with an increased risk of depressed mood. OBJECTIVES: This study was conducted to investigate whether diphenyl diselenide [(PhSe)₂] treatment could reduce the effects of postmenopausal depression-like behavior in ovariectomized female mice submitted to subchronic stress exposure. METHODS: Mice were divided into four groups: sham, (PhSe)₂, ovariectomy (OVX), and OVX + (PhSe)₂. Animals were ovariectomized/sham-operated and subjected to stress session once a day for 7 days from the fifth to the 11th day after OVX. The behavioral tests (open field, tail suspension (TST), and forced swimming (FST)) were performed on the 14th day after OVX. Mice were treated orally once a day with vehicle (canola oil, 10 ml/kg) or (PhSe)₂ (10 mg/kg; 10 ml/kg) 30 min before being exposed to subchronic stress, or from the 11th to the 14th day. Paroxetine (8 mg/kg i.p.) and pargyline (30 mg/kg i.p.) were used as positive controls. The involvement of serotonergic receptor subtypes in the antidepressant-like effect of (PhSe)₂ was assessed in the FST using WAY 100635 (0.1 mg/kg s.c.), ritanserin (1 mg/kg i.p.), and ondansetron (1 mg/kg i.p.) as serotonergic antagonists. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) A and B activities were also determined. RESULTS: The prolongation of immobility time in TST and FST in OVX mice submitted to subchronic stress was prevented by (PhSe)₂ treatment. Ritanserin and ondansetron blocked the antidepressive-like effect of (PhSe)₂, suggesting the involvement of 5-HT(2A/2C) and 5-HT₃ receptor subtypes. Both paroxetine and pargyline were effective in reducing the immobility time of stressed OVX mice in the FST. No alterations in locomotor activity were observed. Although (PhSe)₂ had inhibited in vitro MAO-A and MAO-B activities, none of the groups presented alterations neither in ex vivo MAO-A nor in MAO-B activity. CONCLUSIONS: (PhSe)₂ treatment could influence mood and behavior, indicating a promising role of this organoselenium compound in the management of postmenopausal depressive symptoms.

