Campbell, B. M., et al. (2001). "Neonatal dopamine depletion reveals a synergistic mechanism of mRNA regulation that is mediated by dopamine(D1) and serotonin(2) receptors and is targeted to tachykinin neurons of the dorsomedial striatum." Neuroscience 105(3): 671-680.

	It has been hypothesized that dopamine(D1) and serotonin(2) receptors become sensitized to agonist-mediated regulation of gene expression following loss of dopaminergic innervation to the striatum. We have previously demonstrated that the combined administration of dopamine(D1) and serotonin2 receptor agonists to dopamine-depleted adult rats induced preprotachykinin mRNA expression within the periventricular rostral striatum to levels which were significantly different than what could be elicited by either agonist alone. In the present study, we have determined that this phenomenon is revealed only after dopamine depletion. In addition, it is targeted primarily to tachykinin producing neurons of the dorsomedial striatum and is dependent on both dopamine(D1) and serotonin2 receptor activation. Preprotachykinin mRNA levels in the intact striatum were unaltered 4 h following an i.p. injection of either SKF-38393 (1 mg/kg, dopamine(D1) partial agonist) or (+/-)-1-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI 1 mg/kg, serotonin2 agonist). However, the combined application of both agonists increased (+44%) preprotachykinin message levels, but these changes were restricted to the dorsomedial striatum. In adult animals depleted of dopamine as neonates, striatal preprotachykinin mRNA expression was reduced by approximately 50%. From this lowered level of basal expression, DOI or SKF-38393 raised preprotachykinin mRNA levels within the dorsomedial, but not the dorsolateral striatum. Furthermore, co-stimulation of dopamine(D1) and serotonin, receptors produced a nearly four-fold induction of preprotachykinin message levels in the dorsomedial striatum that was significantly greater than either agonist alone. Application of both agonists also elevated preprotachykinin mRNA expression within the dorsolateral striatum, but to a lesser extent. All increases in preprotachykinin mRNA resulting from co-application of SKF-38393 and DOI were prevented by pretreatment with either SCH-23390 (1 mg/kg, dopamine(D1) antagonist) or ritanserin (1 mg/kg, serotonin2 antagonist). Alternately, preproenkephalin mRNA expression was unaffected by dopamine(D1) receptor stimulation, but was slightly elevated by DOI or both agonists together (42-58%) in intact animals. However, neither agonist treatment in this experiment significantly altered preproenkephalin mRNA expression in the dopamine-depleted striatum which was elevated in response to dopamine lesion alone. Dopamine depletion appears to promote a synergistic interaction between dopamine(D1) and serotonin, receptors that leads to enhanced expression of striatal preprotachykinin mRNA levels. The localization of this phenomenon to tachykinin neurons of the direct striatonigral pathway specifically within the dorsomedial regions of the rostral striatum may be relevant to the problem of dyskinetic behaviors which arise during the pharmacological treatment of movement disorders. (C) 2001 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

