Spilman, P., et al. (2014). "The multi-functional drug tropisetron binds APP and normalizes cognition in a murine Alzheimer's model." Brain Res 1551: 25-44.

	Tropisetron was identified in a screen for candidates that increase the ratio of the trophic, neurite-extending peptide sAPPalpha to the anti-trophic, neurite-retractive peptide Abeta, thus reversing this imbalance in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We describe here a hierarchical screening approach to identify such drug candidates, moving from cell lines to primary mouse hippocampal neuronal cultures to in vivo studies. By screening a clinical compound library in the primary assay using CHO-7W cells stably transfected with human APPwt, we identified tropisetron as a candidate that consistently increased sAPPalpha. Secondary assay testing in neuronal cultures from J20 (PDAPP, huAPP(Swe/Ind)) mice showed that tropisetron consistently increased the sAPPalpha/Abeta 1-42 ratio. In in vivo studies in J20 mice, tropisetron improved the sAPPalpha/Abeta ratio along with spatial and working memory in mice, and was effective both during the symptomatic, pre-plaque phase (5-6 months) and in the late plaque phase (14 months). This ameliorative effect occurred at a dose of 0.5mg/kg/d (mkd), translating to a human-equivalent dose of 5mg/day, the current dose for treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV). Although tropisetron is a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and an alpha7nAChR partial agonist, we found that it also binds to the ectodomain of APP. Direct comparison of tropisetron to the current AD therapeutics memantine (Namenda) and donepezil (Aricept), using similar doses for each, revealed that tropisetron induced greater improvements in memory and the sAPPalpha/Abeta1-42 ratio. The improvements observed with tropisetron in the J20 AD mouse model, and its known safety profile, suggest that it may be suitable for transition to human trials as a candidate therapeutic for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD, and therefore it has been approved for testing in clinical trials beginning in 2014.

