Snodgrass, S. R. (1990). "Myoclonus: analysis of monoamine, GABA, and other systems." Faseb j 4(10): 2775-2788.

	Myoclonus is a clinical term meaning a quick involuntary jerk, seen in normal subjects under certain circumstances, including sleep, and in certain disease states. It is important as a symptom that may impair function and as an indicator of neurological dysfunction. Not until patients with myoclonus and major functional disability were reported in the 1960s was attention given to understanding its basis and pharmacotherapy. Reports of myoclonus developing after anoxic brain injury, and its response to treatment with the serotonin precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), drew special attention. Further experience showed that only a few patients with myoclonus benefit from 5-HTP therapy. Benzodiazepines (BDZs) are often helpful in the treatment of myoclonus. Their beneficial effects decline with chronic administration because of drug tolerance, and the theoretical basis for BDZ responses remains unclear. The relationships between myoclonus, clonus, and epilepsy are discussed, as is the possible contribution of slow signaling transmembrane receptors to synchronization of motoneuron firing, which is suggested as a hallmark of myoclonus. Myoclonus may originate in many CNS sites, but the brain-stem reticular formation is especially relevant to myoclonus. Brain-stem serotonin neurons have special influence on spinal motoneurons, on startle responses, and on myoclonus. Among 5-HT receptors, 5-HT1A receptors are related to some forms of myoclonus, although 5-HT2 receptors are also implicated. GABAA receptors are related to some forms of myoclonus. Blockade of GABAA receptors or GABA synthesis regularly evokes convulsive seizures, but administration of many GABA agonists and some GABA uptake blockers paradoxically may evoke myoclonus. Injection of GABA receptor blockers into some brain areas has anticonvulsant effects. Stimulation of GABAA receptors may therefore promote or antagonize myoclonus depending on which GABA receptors are involved, the state of the system, etc. The role of glycine receptors is well established in some animal models, but has yet to be clearly established for human myoclonus. Opiates may produce myoclonus when given intrathecally or in high dosage. The concept of excitant anesthetics and special function of certain GABA receptors is discussed.

