Vilaro, M. T., et al. (2005). "Serotonin 5-HT4 receptors and their mRNAs in rat and guinea pig brain: Distribution and effects of neurotoxic lesions." Journal of Comparative Neurology 484(4): 418-439.

	Serotonin 5-HT4 receptors are widely distributed in the periphery and in brain, where they modulate the release of various neurotransmitters and have been implicated in learning and memory. Nine C-terminal splice variants of this receptor have been cloned in mammalian species. In the rat, three such variants have been described: 5-HT4(a), 5-HT4(b), and 5-HT4(e)- in the present study, we have examined several aspects of the distribution of these receptors in brain. First, we provide, in rat and guinea pig, a detailed comparison of the distribution of 5-HT4 receptors labeled by the antagonist [I-125]-SB 207710 with the distribution of their encoding mRNA visualized by in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH). The results suggest that, in several projection systems (striato-nigral and striato-pallidal pathways, projection from dentate granule cells to field CA3, habenulo-interpeduncular pathway), 5-HT, receptors are located both somatodendritically and axonally. Second, we have analyzed the distribution of mRNA for the three known rat splice variants by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and by ISHH. RT-PCR indicates that all three variants are widely distributed, with 5-HT4(b) mRNA being present in all regions examined (olfactory tubercle, striatum, hippocampus, inferior colliculus, substantia nigra, parietal cortex) and 5-HT4(a) and 5-HT4(e) showing a somewhat more restricted distribution. In other regions (periaqueductal gray, reticular formation, medial septum, diagonal band), faint ISHH signals are observed for 5-HT4(a)+4(e) mRNAs, whereas 5-HT4(b) mRNA signals are almost undetectable. Finally, neurotoxic lesions of basal ganglia components in guinea pig also indicate a location of these receptors on terminals of striatal projection neurons. J. Comp. Neurol. 484: 418-439, 2005. (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

