Sevoz, C., et al. (1997). "Role of serotonin(3) receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii on the carotid chemoreflex." American Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology 272(3): H1250-H1259.

	The effects of serotonin(3) (5-HT3)receptor stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) on the cardiovagal, sympathetic, and respiratory responses to activation of carotid body chemoreceptors were investigated in anesthetized rats. The chemoreflex responses were triggered by an intravenous administration of KCN (40 mu g/kg) in spontaneously breathing urethan-chloralose-anesthetized rats or by an intracarotid administration of saline saturated with 100% CO2 in pancuronium bromide-paralyzed and artificially ventilated urethan-anesthetized rats. Microinjections of 5-HT (2.5-5 nmol) or the 5-HT3 agonist 1-(m-chlorophenyl)biguanide (CPBG, 300-1,200 pmol) into the commissural NTS blocked in a dose-dependent manner the atropine sensitive chemoreflex bradycardia elicited by KCN. However, neither 5-HT nor CPBG affected the KCN-induced increase in respiratory volume and the CO2-induced increases in blood pressure and lumbar sympathetic nerve discharge. The inhibitory effect of 5-HT or CPBG on KCN-induced bradycardia was blocked by prior intra-NTS microinjection of a 5-HT3 antagonist, such as zacopride (100 pmol) or ondansetron (100 pmol), or the A-type gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) antagonist bicuculline (10 pmol). In contrast, local microinjections of antagonists acting at 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptors, such as methysergide (100 pmol) and ketanserin (10 pmol), respectively, did not prevent the actions of 5-HT or CPBG. These data show that the stimulation of 5-HT3 receptors in the NTS exerted an inhibitory influence, probably through the activation of a local GABAergic system, on the cardiovagal component of the chemoreflex. Because similar effects of 5-HT3-receptor stimulation in the NTS were previously found on the baroreflex and Bezold-Jarisch reflex responses, it can be inferred that NTS 5-HT3 receptors play a key modulatory role in the reflex control of the heart rate.

