Protais, P., et al. (1995). "POST SYNAPTIC 5-HT1A RECEPTOR INVOLVEMENT IN YAWNING AND PENILE ERECTIONS INDUCED BY APOMORPHINE, PHYSOSTIGMINE AND MCPP IN RATS." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 120(4): 376-383.

	Apomorphine and mCPP induced yawning associated with penile erections in rats, whereas physostigmine induced only yawns. Apomorphine-induced yawning and penile erections were antagonized by low doses of raclopride, whereas physostigmine-induced yawning and mCPP-induced effects were only partly inhibited at high doses of raclopride. Scopolamine as well as clozapine antagonized yawning and penile erections induced by apomorphine, mCPP and physostigmine. Similarly, the 5-HT1A agonists 8-OH-DPAT and S 14506 inhibited yawning and penile erections induced by apomorphine, mCPP and physostigmine, and at similar doses induced lower lip retraction and hyperreactivity to handling. The beta/5-HT1A antagonist tertatolol reversed the inhibitory effects of 8-OH-DPAT and S 14506 on drug-induced yawning and penile erections and increased apomorphine- and physostigmine-induced yawn frequency but not penile erection frequency. Like tertatolol: propranolol increased apomorphine- and physostigmine-induced yawn frequency, whereas ICI 118551 increased only physostigmine-induced yawning. 8-OH-DPAT- and S 14506-induced lower lip retraction and hyperreactivity to handling were also significantly antagonized by tertatolol. Finally, p-chlorophenylalanine pretreatment produced about 95% depletion in 5-HT in hypothalamus, hippocampus, striatum and frontal cortex and modified neither the responses of the inducing drugs nor the inhibitory effects of 8-OH-DPAT and S 14506 on drug-induced yawning and penile erections. These data suggest (i) that a final cholinergic mechanism blocked by scopolamine and clozapine is involved in drug-induced yawning and penile erections, (ii) that the effects of S 14506 depend upon stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors, (iii) that the inhibitory effects of 5-HT1A agonists on yawning and penile erections probably occurred at final steps on the pathways involved in the expression of yawning and penile erections and that these effects could be related to other effects of the 5-HT1A agonists, (iv) that a tonic inhibitory beta influence could interfere with the expression of yawning but not with that of penile erections and (v) that presynaptic 5-HT1A receptors do not seem to play an important role in the inhibitory effects of 5-HT1A agonists on drug-induced yawning and penile erections in rats.

