Tajuddin, N. F. and M. J. Druse (2001). "A persistent deficit of serotonin neurons in the offspring of ethanol-fed dams: protective effects of maternal ipsapirone treatment." Developmental Brain Research 129(2): 181-188.

	An earlier study from this laboratory found a significant reduction in the density of serotonin (5-HT) neurons in the dorsal and median raphe and in the B9 complex of postnatal day 5 (PN5) offspring of female rats that consumed ethanol on a chronic basis prior to parturition. In addition, we demonstrated that maternal treatment with the 5-HT1A agonist ipsapirone (3 mg/kg) prevented the ethanol-associated reduction in 5-HT neurons. The present investigation examined whether there was a persistent deficit of 5-HT-immunopositive neurons in the dorsal and median raphe of the offspring of ethanol-fed dams. We also evaluated whether a lower ipsapirone dose (1 mg/kg) was protective to developing 5-HT neurons in the offspring of ethanol-fed dams. The offspring of ethanol-fed dams exhibited an apparent lasting reduction in the density of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal and median raphe. The density of 5-HT neurons in control offspring was comparable at PN5 and PN19, but at both ages the offspring of ethanol-fed dams had a significant deficit of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal and median raphe. The lack of recovery in the density of 5-HT-immunopositive neurons in the offspring of ethanol-fed dams between PN5 and PN19 suggests and that the reduction was long lasting. The protective effects of ipsapirone appeared to be dose dependent. The density of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal and median raphe of PN5 (prior study) and PN19 offspring of ethanol-fed dams that were treated with 3 mg/kg of ipsapirone between gestational day 13 (G13) and G20 was comparable to that of control offspring. However, the effects of maternal treatment of ethanol-fed dams with the I mg/kg dose were variable, and some abnormalities were detected in the offspring of ipsapirone-treated control dams. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

