van den Munkhof, H. E., et al. (2017). "The antipsychotic drug brexpiprazole reverses phencyclidine-induced disruptions of thalamocortical networks." European Neuropsychopharmacology 27(12): 1248-1257.

	Brexpiprazole (BREX), a recently approved antipsychotic drug in the US and Canada, improves cognitive dysfunction in animal models, by still largely unknown mechanisms. BREX is a partial agonist at 5-HT1A and D2 receptors and antagonist at alpha(1B)- and alpha(2C)-adrenergic and 5-HT2A receptors all with a similar potency. The NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP), used as pharmacological model of schizophrenia, activates thalamocortical networks and decreases low frequency oscillations (LFO; <4 Hz). These effects are reversed by antipsychotics. Here we assessed the ability of BREX to reverse PCP-induced hyperactivity of thalamocortical circuits, and the involvement of 5-HT1A receptors in its therapeutic action. BREX reversed PCP-induced neuronal activation at a lower dose in centromedial/mediodorsal thalamic nuclei (CM/MD; 0.5 mg/kg) than in pyramidal medial prefrontal cortex neurons (mPFC, 2 mg/kg), perhaps due to antagonism at alpha(1B)-adrenoceptors, abundantly expressed in the thalamus. Conversely, a cumulative 0.5 mg/kg dose reversed a PCP-induced LFO decrease in mPFC but not in CM/MD. BREX reduced LFO in both areas, yet with a different dose-response, and moderately excited mPFC neurons. The latter effect was reversed by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635. Thus, BREX partly antagonizes PCP-induced thalamocortical hyperactivity, differentially in mPFC versus CM/MD. This regional selectivity may be related to the differential expression of alpha(1B), alpha(2C)-adrenergic and 5-HT2A receptors in both regions and/or different neuronal types. Furthermore, the pro-cognitive properties of BREX may be related to the 5-HT1A receptor mediated increase in mPFC pyramidal neuron activity. Overall, the present data provide new insight on the brain elements involved in BREX's therapeutic actions. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

