Bonnin, A., et al. (2006). "Expression mapping of 5-HT1 serotonin receptor subtypes during fetal and early postnatal mouse forebrain development." Neuroscience 141(2): 781-794.

	Serotonin (5-HT) is implicated in several aspects of brain development, yet the ontogenetic expression patterns of 5-HT receptors responsible for transducing specific effects have largely not been characterized. Fifteen different 5-HT receptor genes have been cloned; therefore any spatial and/or temporal combination of their developmental expression could mediate a wide array of 5-HT effects. We undertook a detailed analysis of expression mapping of the Gi/o-coupled 5-HT1 (5-HT1A, 1B, 1D and 1F) receptor subtypes in the fetal and early postnatal mouse forebrain. Using receptor subtype-specific riboprobes and in situ hybridization, we observed that all 5-HT1 receptor subtypes are expressed as early as embryonic day (E) 14.5 in the forebrain, typically in gradients within specific structures. Among 5-HT1 receptors, the 5-HT1A receptor transcript is expressed densely in E14.5-16.5 thalamus, in hippocampus, and in a medial to lateral gradient in cortex, whereas the 5-HT1B receptor mRNA is expressed in more lateral parts of the dorsal thalamus and in the striatum at these ages. The 5-HT1D receptor transcript, which also is expressed heavily in E14.5-E16.5 thalamus, appears to be down-regulated at birth. The 5-HT1F receptor transcript is present in proliferative regions such as the cortical ventricular zone, ganglionic eminences, and medial aspects of the thalamus at E14.5-16.5, and otherwise presents similarities to the expression patterns of 5-HT1B and 1D receptor transcripts. Overall, the 5-HT1 subfamily of Gi/o-coupled 5-HT receptors displays specific and dynamic expression patterns during embryonic forebrain development. Moreover, all members of the 5-HT1 receptor class are strongly and transiently expressed in the embryonic dorsal thalamus, which suggests a potential role for serotonin in early thalamic development.

