Tamir, H., et al. (1991). "Identification of serotonin receptors recognized by anti-idiotypic antibodies." J Neurochem 57(3): 930-942.

	Anti-idiotypic antibodies were generated by immunizing rabbits with affinity-purified antibodies to serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT). Anti-5-HT activity was removed from the resulting antisera by chromatography through a 5-HT affinity column. The anti-idiotypic antibodies were demonstrated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to bind to affinity-purified whole anti-5-HT antibodies and their Fab fragments. Anti-idiotypic antibodies, purified by affinity chromatography on columns to which antibodies to 5-HT were coupled, competed with 5-HT (covalently bound to protein) for the binding sites on anti-5-HT antibodies and serotonin binding protein. The anti-idiotypic antibodies antagonized the binding of [3H]5-HT to membranes isolated from the cerebral cortex, striatum, and raphe area more than to membranes from hippocampus or cerebellum. The anti-idiotypic antibodies also blocked the binding of the 5-HT1B-selective ligand (-)-[125I]iodocyanopindolol (in the presence of 30 microM isoproterenol) to cortical membranes. In contrast, anti-idiotypic antibodies failed to inhibit binding of the 5-HT1A-selective ligand 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-[3H]propylamino)-tetralin [( 3H]8-OH-DPAT) to raphe area membranes or hippocampal membranes. These observations suggested that the anti-idiotypic antibodies may recognize some 5-HT receptor subtypes but not others. This hypothesis was tested by ascertaining the ability of anti-idiotypic antibodies to immunostain cells transfected in vitro with cDNA encoding the 5-HT1C or 5-HT2 receptor or with a genomic clone encoding the 5-HT1A receptor. Punctate sites of immunofluorescence were found on the surfaces of fibroblasts that expressed 5-HT1C and 5-HT2 receptors, but not on the surfaces of HeLa cells that expressed 5-HT1A receptors. Immunostaining of cells by the anti-idiotypic antibodies was inhibited by appropriate pharmacological agents: immunostaining of cells expressing 5-HT1C receptors was blocked by mesulergine (but not ketanserin, 8-OH-DPAT, or spiperone), whereas that of cells expressing 5-HT2 receptors was blocked by ketanserin or spiperone (but not mesulergine or 8-OH-DPAT). The anti-idiotypic antibodies failed to inhibit the uptake of [3H]5-HT by serotonergic neurons. It is concluded that the anti-idiotypic antibodies generated with anti-5-HT serum recognize the 5-HT1B, 5-HT1C, and 5-HT2 receptor subtypes; however, neither 5-HT1A receptors nor 5-HT uptake sites appear to react with these antibodies.

