Vanbockstaele, E. J., et al. (1994). "SYNAPTIC STRUCTURE AND CONNECTIVITY OF SEROTONIN TERMINALS IN THE VENTRAL TEGMENTAL AREA - POTENTIAL SITES FOR MODULATION OF MESOLIMBIC DOPAMINE NEURONS." Brain Res 647(2): 307-322.

	Microinfusion of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) into the ventral tegmental area enhances the release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, a major target of midbrain dopamine neurons. We examined the synaptic basis for 5-HT modulation of neurons in the ventral tegmental area which either (i) project to the nucleus accumbens or (ii) contain the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of dopamine neurons in this brain region. In the first study, immunoperoxidase labeling of 5-HT in the ventral tegmental area was combined with retrograde transport of gold particles following unilateral injections of the tracer into the nucleus accumbens of adult rats. The gold particles had been previously coupled to wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to inactive horseradish peroxidase. Gold particles were enlarged for visualization using a silver enhancement procedure. By brightfield microscopy, retrogradely labeled neurons contained black punctate granules within their perikarya and proximal processes. The labeled cells were scattered ipsilateral to the injection within the paranigral and parabrachial subdivisions of the Ventral tegmental area. Both regions also contained 5-HT immunoreactive varicosities. By electron microscopy, irrespective of the ventral tegmental subdivision, 5-HT labeling was seen primarily in unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. The terminals contained small, clear and large dense core vesicles and ranged from 0.3 mu m to 1.4 mu m in cross-sectional diameter. 22% (n = 250) of the axon terminals containing 5-HT immunoreactivity formed synaptic contacts with neurons containing the retrograde label. Of these 5-HT terminals, 16% formed asymmetric type contacts and 6% formed symmetric junctions on the retrogradely labeled neurons. The remaining 5-HT terminals were either apposed to (but lacked recognized synapses on) perikarya and large dendrites containing the retrogradely transported protein-gold tracer or contacted unlabeled neurons. In the second set of experiments combining immunoperoxidase of 5-HT and immunogold silver for tyrosine hydroxylase, 32% (n = 250) of the 5-HT-Iabeled terminals formed synaptic junctions with perikarya or dendrites containing tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Of these 5-HT terminals, 23% formed asymmetric type junctions. The remainder were either symmetric or lacked recognized membrane densities. The prominence of asymmetric junctions formed by 5-HT-labeled terminals on neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens and those containing tyrosine hydroxylase in the ventral tegmental area suggests a cellular basis for serotonergic excitation of mesoaccumbens dopamine neurons. Additionally, the multiplicity of junctions formed by 5-HT terminals on targets with or without retrograde labeling or tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity is consistent with known diverse physiological actions of 5-HT in the ventral tegmental area.

