Rundfeldt, C. (1999). "Potassium channels and neurodegenerative diseases." Drug News Perspect 12(2): 99-104.

	Many different insults and mechanisms can lead to neurodegeneration. Potassium channel openers may play a role in counteracting or preventing this damage. A heterogeneous array of potassium channels, classified according to their electrophysiological properties, has been identified. Different potassium channels are involved in several steps within the pathophysiological cascade that ultimately leads to cell death; therefore, several potassium channel openers may interfere with different steps within the neurodegenerative cascade. However, it is possible that in case of severe insults potassium channel opening may not lead to neuroprotection, due to the fact that potassium channels are already endogenously activated and the extracellular potassium concentration is already very high. Thus, further channel opening may have no additional positive effects. Selective drugs for individual channel subtypes should be used in predictive models of neurodegeneration; however, the currently known potassium channel openers are few and nonselective. The classes of drugs that need to be explored include potassium. channel openers of the ATP-sensitive, high-conductance calcium-sensitive, and inward rectifier or leakage types. Selective openers for inward rectifier potassium channels are currently not available, although activation of 5-HT1A receptors results in the induction of an inwardly rectifying potassium current. Potent neuroprotective properties have been described for different 5-HT1A agonists in models of focal and global ischemia. Retigabine, a leakage-current potassium channel opener, has been shown to have neuroprotective effects in animal models of neurodegeneration. Of the currently available potassium channel openers, retigabine and BAY-X-3702 are active at nontoxic doses. Further research is needed to develop selective, well-tolerated potassium channel openers. (C) 1999 Prous Science. All rights reserved.

