Yang, G. E., et al. (2019). "Risperidone Treatment after Transient Ischemia Induces Hypothermia and Provides Neuroprotection in the Gerbil Hippocampus by Decreasing Oxidative Stress." International Journal of Molecular Sciences 20(18).

	Compelling evidence from preclinical and clinical studies has shown that mild hypothermia is neuroprotective against ischemic stroke. We investigated the neuroprotective effect of post-risperidone (RIS) treatment against transient ischemic injury and its mechanisms in the gerbil brain. Transient ischemia (TI) was induced in the telencephalon by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAO) for 5 min under normothermic condition (37 +/- 0.2 degrees C). Treatment of RIS induced hypothermia until 12 h after TI in the TI-induced animals under uncontrolled body temperature (UBT) compared to that under controlled body temperature (CBT) (about 37 degrees C). Neuroprotective effect was statistically significant when we used 5 and 10 mg/kg doses (p < 0.05, respectively). In the RIS-treated TI group, many CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus survived under UBT compared to those under CBT. In this group under UBT, post-treatment with RIS to TI-induced animals markedly attenuated the activation of glial cells, an increase of oxidative stress markers [dihydroethidium, 8-hydroxy-2' -deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and 4-Hydroxynonenal (4-HNE)], and a decrease of superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) in their CA1 pyramidal neurons. Furthermore, RIS-induced hypothermia was significantly interrupted by NBOH-2C-CN hydrochloride (a selective 5-HT2A receptor agonist), but not bromocriptine mesylate (a D-2 receptor agonist). Our findings indicate that RIS-induced hypothermia can effectively protect neuronal cell death from TI injury through attenuation of glial activation and maintenance of antioxidants, showing that 5-HT2A receptor is involved in RIS-induced hypothermia. Therefore, RIS could be introduced to reduce body temperature rapidly and might be applied to patients for hypothermic therapy following ischemic stroke.

