Saphier, D. and J. E. Welch (1995). "Effects of the serotonin1A agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin on neurochemical responses to stress." J Neurochem 64(2): 767-776.

	The effects of intracerebroventricular administration of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT; 0.1 pmol) on adrenocortical and neurochemical responses to stress were examined in conscious male rats. The following stress paradigms were used: acoustic stimulation (105 dB for 2 min); footshock (0.2 mA, five shocks over 5 min); conditioned fear (animals placed in a footshock chamber for 5 min, 24 h after footshock); restraint (5 min); intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of recombinant human interleukin-1 alpha (rHu-IL-1 alpha, 20 micrograms/kg); and injection of cocaine hydrochloride (20 mg/kg, i.p.). As previously shown, 8-OH-DPAT was able to attenuate the adrenocortical response to acoustic stress, conditioned fear, rHu-IL-1 alpha, and cocaine administration. Cocaine decreased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA)/5-HT and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine (DOPAC/DA) ratios and norepinephrine (NE) concentration in the prefrontal cortex, hypothalamus, and brainstem in all experiments, and 8-OH-DPAT reversed the changes in DOPAC/DA ratio without affecting 5-HIAA/5-HT ratios or NE content. 8-OH-DPAT alone had no effect on these parameters, although it decreased NE content in the prefrontal cortex in several experiments, and in the brainstem in one experiment. Significant decreases in NE content were observed in some brain regions following some of the stressors, but these changes were not generally affected by 8-OH-DPAT. Increases in the 5-HIAA/5-HT and DOPAC/DA ratios were also observed in some brain sites following some stressors, but these changes were not affected by 8-OH-DPAT except in the case of the increased 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio in the prefrontal cortex following the conditioned fear response. These results indicate that although 8-OH-DPAT is able to decrease plasma corticosterone responses following acoustic stress, conditioned fear, rHu-IL-1 alpha, and cocaine administration, these effects do not appear to be related to an action of the 5-HT1A agonist on biogenic amine metabolism. This observation indicates that the predominant effect of 8-OH-DPAT on adrenocortical responses is mediated at postsynaptic sites not involved in the regulation of cerebral biogenic amine metabolism.

