Bruinvels, A. T., et al. (1994). "Localization of 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D alpha, 5-HT1E and 5-HT1F receptor messenger RNA in rodent and primate brain." Neuropharmacology 33(3-4): 367-386.

	In situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) was used to study the distribution of various 5-HT1 receptor messenger RNAs (mRNA) in the mammalian nervous system. Since the cDNAs encoding the different 5-HT1 receptors, have not been cloned in one single species, brains of the species appropriate for the 5-HT1 receptor messenger RNA (mRNA) have been used. Thus, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D alpha mRNA were determined in rat and mouse brain, while 5-HT1E and 5-HT1F mRNA were studied in human (and monkey) and guinea-pig brain, respectively. 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D alpha hybridization signals were predominantly present in caudate-putamen and cortical areas; in addition, 5-HT1B mRNA was also detected in hippocampus, cerebellum and cerebral arteries. In general, the distribution of 5-HT1B mRNA was characterized by high densities, whereas 5-HT1D alpha mRNA was expressed at very low levels. Comparison of the localization of the mRNAs to the regional distributions of the 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D binding sites in rat brain (described in a previous study), revealed that both receptor subtypes could be putative presynaptic heteroreceptors, modulating the release of various neurotransmitters in the central nervous system. The mRNA encoding the recently cloned 5-HT1E receptor, which has low affinity for the 5-HT1 receptor ligand 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), was localized in human brain. It was found to be present in cortical areas, caudate, putamen and amygdala, areas known to contain 5-CT insensitive 5-HT1 binding sites. The regional distribution of the 5-HT1F mRNA was determined in guinea-pig brain: high densities were observed in various cortical areas, the hippocampal formation and claustrum, which are regions known to contain 5-CT insensitive 5-HT1 or non 5-HT1A/1B/IC/ID [3H]5-HT binding sites. Altogether, this ISHH study describes the distribution of mRNAs of recently cloned 5-HT1 receptors in rodent and primate brain and compares these results to the distribution of the heterogeneous population of 5-HT1 binding sites.

