Brändli, P., et al. (1996). "Role of endothelin in mediating neurogenic plasma extravasation in rat dura mater." Pain 64(2): 315-322.

	In addition to their potent vasoconstrictor properties, the endothelins (endothelin-1 and -3) may possess neurotransmitter/neuromediator and neuroendocrine actions. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of endothelins (ET) in mediating neurogenic inflammation of cephalic tissues in the rat. For this purpose, bosentan, a specific non-peptide mixed antagonist of ET receptors, was tested in rat models of neurogenic and non-neurogenic plasma extravasation in the dura mater and extracranial tissues (eyelid, conjunctiva, lip, tongue). Bosentan was effective for preventing neurogenic inflammation in the dura mater induced by unilateral electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion or intravenous injection of capsaicin, whereas it was ineffective in extracranial tissues or after injection of substance P (non-neurogenic inflammation). The effect of nerve fiber stimulation on ET plasma concentrations in superior sagittal sinus was measured using selective radioimmunoassays for ET-1 and -3. Endothelin-3 concentration significantly increased after intravenous injection of capsaicin, whereas ET-1 levels remained unchanged. Competition binding assays on microsomal membranes from the trigeminal ganglion revealed a single class of binding sites with equal affinity for ET-1 and ET-3, suggesting a homogenous population of ETB receptors. The role of ETB receptors in mediating inflammation was evidenced by the lack of efficacy of a selective ETA receptor antagonist, in contrast to the full efficacy of a selective ETB receptor antagonist, for preventing neurogenic inflammation induced by unilateral stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion. The role of ETB receptors was finally confirmed by the observation that exogenous administration of the ETB receptor agonist sarafotoxin S6c also induced plasma protein extravasation in the dura mater. This extravasation was not a direct effect of ETB receptor stimulation, because it was inhibited by spantide, a selective tachykinin receptor antagonist. These data strongly suggest that ET, acting through ETB receptors, may play an important role in mediating neurogenic inflammation in the meninges of rats. Since the profile of activity of bosentan is similar to that of the 5-HT1D/B agonists, sumatriptan and ergot alkaloids, one may speculate that ET receptor antagonists might be potentially effective in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.

