Chang, C. P., et al. (2005). "Ipsapirone and ketanserin protects against circulatory shock, intracranial hypertension, and cerebral ischemia during heatstroke." Shock 24(4): 336-340.

	We assess the effects of ipsapirone (a 5-HT1A receptor agonist), ketanserin (a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist), (-)-pindolol (a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist), and DOI (a 5-HT2A receptor agonist) on heatstroke in a rat model. Animals, under urethane anesthesia, were exposed to high ambient temperature of 42 degrees C until mean arterial pressure and local cerebral blood flow in the striatum began to decrease, which was arbitrarily defined as the onset of heatstroke. Normothermic controls were exposed to room temperature of 24 degrees C. In rats treated with normal saline immediately before the initiation of heat stress, the values for survival time were found to be 21 to 25 min. Systemic administration of ipsapirone (10 mg/kg) or ketanserin (2 mg/kg) immediately before the initiation of heat stress significantly increased the survival time to new values of 92 to 104 min. Combined treatment with ipsapirone and ketanserin had additive effects (survival time of 156-194 min). In contrast, systemic administration of (-)-pindolol (2 mg/kg) or DOI (2 mg/kg) significantly decreased the survival time to new values of 2 to 3 min. In vehicle-treated heatstroke rats, the values for core temperature, intracranial pressure, and the extracellular levels of cellular ischemia (e.g., glutamate and lactate/pyruvate ratio) or damage (e.g., glycerol) markers and neuronal damage scores in striaturn were significantly higher than those of normothermic controls. On the other hand, the values for mean arterial pressure, cerebral perfusion pressure, cerebral blood flow, and brain partial pressure of O-2 were significantly lower than those of normothermic controls. The heatstroke-induced hyperthermia, arterial hypotension, intracranial hypertension, cerebral hypoperfusion and hypoxia, and increased levels of cellular ischemia and damage markers in striaturn were all significantly attenuated by prior administration of ipsapirone or ketanserin. The present results strongly suggest that previous activation of 5-HT1A receptors or antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors protects against heatstroke by reducing circulatory shock and cerebral ischemia, whereas prior antagonism of 5-HT1A receptors or activation of 5-HT2A receptors exacerbates heatstroke.

