Shirasaki, T., et al. (2004). "delta-opioid receptor antagonists inhibit GIRK channel currents in acutely dissociated brainstem neurons of rat." Brain Res 1006(2): 190-197.

	In this study, we investigated the effects of delta-opioid receptor antagonists on the G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channel currents induced by serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NAd) in the dorsal raphe and the locus coeruleus neurons, respectively. Perforated patch and conventional whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques were used for the study. Neurons were acutely dissociated from neonatal rats. Both naltrindole (NTI) and naltriben (NTB), which are selective delta-antagonists possessing antitussive activity in in vivo animal studies, reversibly inhibited the 5-HT-induced GIRK channel currents (l(5-HT)) in dorsal raphe neurons. This inhibition was concentration-dependent and voltage-independent. The half-maximum inhibitory concentration (IC50) on l(5-HT) was 9.84 x 10(-5) M for NTI and 1.28 X 10(-5) M for NTB. The inhibition was not reversed by 10(-5) M DPDPE, a selective delta-opioid receptor agonist. NTI did not affect 50% effective concentration (EC50) on the concentration-response relationship for 5-HT but inhibited the maximum response. In neurons internally perfused with GTPyS, both NTI and NTB also inhibited the GIRK channel currents irreversibly activated by 5-HT. Furthermore, these antagonists concentration dependently inhibited 10(-6) M NAd-induced currents (l(NAd)) in locus coeruleus neurons. The IC50 of NTI on l(NAd) was 8.44 X 10(-5) M, which was close to that on l(5-HT). The results suggest that NTI and NTB, which are delta-opioid receptor antagonists possessing antitussive activity, may inhibit GIRK channel currents through a non-opioid action, and give further support to our idea previously proposed that centrally acting non-narcotic antitussives have a common characteristic of the inhibitory action on GIRK channels. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

