Veldman, E. R., et al. (2017). "Distribution and levels of 5-HT1B receptors in anterior cingulate cortex of patients with bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder and schizophrenia - An autoradiography study." European Neuropsychopharmacology 27(5): 504-514.

	The serotonin 1B receptor has recently received more interest as a possible new target for pharmacological treatment of psychiatric disorders. However, the exact mechanisms of action remain unclear. This study aimed to examine the binding distribution and levels of the serotonin 1B receptor in-depth in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and provide more insight in its functional role in bipolar disorder (BD), major depressive disorder (MDD) and schizophrenia (SZ). Serotonin 1B receptor binding distribution was visualized with high resolution autoradiography (ARG), using the radioligand [H-3]AZ10419369, in postmortem ACC tissue from patients diagnosed with BD (n=14), MDD (n=12), SZ (n=13) and healthy subjects (n=13). Moreover, a quantification of receptor binding was made with ARG, in relation to patient group, age and gender. In all subject groups a significantly higher specific binding of serotonin 1B receptor was measured in the outer ACC layers compared to the inner ACC layers. Correlation analysis with ARG binding patterns of several radioligands resulted in a significant correlation with glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor binding in the outer layers. No significant difference was found between subject groups in binding levels and distribution. In female subjects a significantly lower receptor binding was found than in male subjects, which was most profound in patients diagnosed with MDD. The binding distribution of the serotonin 1B receptor found in this study supports a role in glutamate transmission in the ACC and was not shown to be significantly altered in BD, MDD or SZ. A gender difference in serotonin 1B receptor binding was found. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

