Sévoz-Couche, C., et al. (1998). "Dorsal medullary 5-HT3 receptors and sympathetic premotor neurones in the rat." J Physiol 508 ( Pt 3)(Pt 3): 747-762.

	1. Our aim was to determine whether the cardiovascular neurones in the rostro-ventrolateral medulla (CV-RVLM neurones) were involved in the sympathoexcitation induced by stimulation of 5-HT3 receptors in the region of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). Experiments were performed in pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats, artificially ventilated and paralysed with pancuronium bromide. 2. Using extracellular recordings, different types of RVLM neurones were characterized: cardiovascular (CV), ventilation-related and baroreflex-insensitive (unidentified) neurones. The CV-RVLM cells were further subdivided into three populations according to their axonal conduction velocities: A (1.2 +/- 0.1 m s-1), B (2.5 +/- 0.2 m s-1) and C (6.8 +/- 1.1 m s-1). 3. Only the CV-RVLM neurones of the A and B categories were partially inhibited (-30 %) by a hypotensive dose (2.5 microg kg-1 i.v.) of clonidine. 4. Microinjections into the region of the commissural NTS of 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide (CPBG, 2 nmol), a selective 5-HT3 receptor agonist, elicited an increase in both lumbar sympathetic nerve discharge (SND) and arterial pressure. In addition, this treatment produced a marked excitation of CV-RVLM neurones of the A and B categories, without affecting those of the C type, as well as ventilation-related and unidentified RVLM cells. 5. The activity of the CV neurones in the caudo-ventrolateral part of the medulla oblongata (CV-CVLM) was not modified by 5-HT3 receptor stimulation in the NTS. 6. Prior intra-NTS microinjections of ondansetron (300 pmol, a selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist) into the region of the commissural NTS prevented the excitation of A and B CV-RVLM neurones induced by CPBG. 7. Intracarotid administration of saline saturated with CO2 (chemoreceptor activation) elicited both an increase in the SND and an excitation of the clonidine-insensitive CV-RVLM neurones of the C type, without affecting A and B neurones. 8. In conclusion, the sympathoexcitation elicited following 5-HT3 receptor stimulation in the region of the commissural NTS of pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats seems to result from the excitation of two different pools of clonidine-sensitive CV-RVLM neurones. These neurones are apparently not involved in the sympathetic component of the chemoreceptor reflex.

