Raymond, J. R., et al. (1993). "Immunohistochemical mapping of cellular and subcellular distribution of 5-HT1A receptors in rat and human kidneys." Am J Physiol 264(1 Pt 2): F9-19.

	Northern blotting studies have demonstrated mRNA for the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor in human neonatal kidney (B. K. Kobilka, T. Frielle, S. Collins, T. Yang-Feng, T. S. Kobilka, U. Francke, R. J. Lefkowitz, and M. G. Caron. Nature Lond. 329: 75-79, 1987). To confirm expression of receptor protein in kidney, we raised antibodies to two peptides derived from the third intracellular loop of the human 5-HT1A receptor. Specific immunoglobulin G (IgG) was purified sequentially on protein A-Sepharose and peptide-Affigel 10 columns. Each IgG was able to: 1) quantitatively immunoprecipitate [3H]8-OH-2-(di-n-propylamino)1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene ([3H]8-OH-DPAT)-labeled human and rat receptors; 2) immunoblot a new protein in cells transfected with human 5-HT1A receptor DNA; and 3) immunoautoradiographically label areas of rat brain (frontal cortex, hippocampus, and lateral septum) in a highly characteristic pattern similar to that labeled by 125I-Bolton-Hunter-8-methoxy-2-(N-propyl-N-propylamino)Tetralin, a specific 5-HT1A receptor autoradiography ligand. By use of a light microscopic immunoperoxidase labeling technique, incubation of each IgG antibody with sections of rat and human kidney demonstrated an identical pattern of immunoreactivity. Specific labeling of basolateral plasma membranes was detected throughout medullary and cortical thick ascending limbs (TAL), in distal convoluted tubules (DCT), in connecting tubule cells of the connecting tubule, and in principal cells of the initial collecting tubule. There was no labeling in the inner medulla, glomeruli, or blood vessels. The labeling was blocked by preincubation with the corresponding peptide, but not with noncorresponding peptide or carrier protein. There was no labeling with preimmune IgG. Electron microscopic immunoperoxidase labeling confirmed the specific localization of the IgG antibody along the basolateral plasma membrane in all positively staining cells in rat kidney. Radioligand binding studies with the specific 5-HT1A receptor ligand [3H]8-OH-DPAT confirmed the presence of 5-HT1A receptor binding sites in bulk-isolated rat medullary TAL. These studies provide the first evidence that the 5-HT1A receptor is expressed on the basolateral surface of TAL and DCT cells of human and rat kidney. The specific localization to these cells suggests a possible role for the 5-HT1A receptor in the regulation of salt and water transport in mammalian kidney.

