Tokarski, K., et al. (2012). "Stress- and antidepressant treatment-induced modifications of 5-HT(7) receptor functions in the rat brain." Pharmacol Rep 64(6): 1305-1315.

	This paper summarizes a series of electrophysiological studies aimed at finding the effects of the activation of 5-HT(7) receptors on neuronal excitability as well as on excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus and in the frontal cortex of the rat. These studies demonstrated that 5-HT(7) receptors play an important role in the modulation of the activity of the hippocampal network by regulating the excitability of pyramidal cells of the CA1 area, as well as via their effect on GABA and glutamatergic transmission. The reactivity of 5-HT(7) receptors in the hippocampus is decreased by repeated administration of antidepressant drugs and increased by a prolonged high level of corticosterone. More importantly, administration of antidepressant drug, imipramine, prevents the occurrence of corticosterone-induced changes in the function of hippocampal 5-HT(7) receptors. It has also been found that the blockade of 5-HT(7) receptors by the selective antagonist SB 269970, lasting for a few days, causes similar changes to those observed after long-term administration of antidepressants. Thus, it seems that the pharmacological blockade of 5-HT(7) receptors produces faster effects compared to classic antidepressant drugs. A similarity between the changes in the glutamatergic transmission induced by the blockade of 5 HT7 receptors and those caused by repeated administration of the antidepressant drug, imipramine, has also been found in the frontal cortex. It has also been shown that the changes in glutamatergic transmission and the impairment of long-term synaptic plasticity in the frontal cortex of animals subjected to repeated restraint stress are reversed by the blockade of 5-HT(7) receptors. Overall, these studies, together with the data provided by other investigators, support the hypothesis that 5-HT(7) receptor antagonists may become a prototype of a new class of antidepressant drugs. Such compounds will not function by blocking 5-HT reuptake, as many of the currently used drugs, but through a direct interaction with the 5-HT(7) receptor. This type of action is highly selective and usually does not require the occurrence of adaptive changes in neuronal functions, thus allowing for a much quicker therapeutic effect.

