Charbit, A. R., et al. (2011). "Trigeminocervical complex responses after lesioning dopaminergic A11 nucleus are modified by dopamine and serotonin mechanisms." Pain 152(10): 2365-2376.

	Both serotonergic and dopaminergic receptor modulation can alter trigeminal nociceptive processing, and descending A11 dopaminergic projections can affect trigeminal nociceptive transmission. Here we aimed to test the interaction between dopamine D-2 and serotonin 5-HT1B/1D receptors and their individual and combined effects in order to better understand the relationship of the descending influences of these systems on nociceptive trigeminovascular afferents. Extracellular recordings were made in the rat trigeminocervical complex in response to electrical stimulation of the dura mater and mechanical noxious and innocuous stimulation of the ipsilateral ophthalmic dermatome. The A11 nucleus was lesioned, and following the resultant facilitation of neuronal firing, one of a selective 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonist (naratriptan), selective 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonist (GR127935), a selective D-2-like receptor agonist (quinpirole), and a selective D-1-like receptor agonist (dihydrexidine), or a combination of the above, were administered. Both quinpirole and quinpirole with naratriptan inhibited firing in the trigeminocervical complex evoked by noxious stimuli, reducing it below prelesion baseline, while the response to innocuous stimuli was reduced back to baseline. Both naratriptan alone, and quinpirole combined with GR127935, inhibited firing in the trigeminocervical complex evoked by noxious stimuli, returning it to prelesion baseline, while the response to innocuous stimuli remained facilitated. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated D-2-receptor and 5-HT1B/1D-receptor colocalization in the trigeminocervical complex. The data suggest that the serotonergic and dopaminergic antinociceptive pathways act simultaneously on neurons in the trigeminocervical complex, and both amine systems need to be functioning for trigeminal sensitization to be reversed. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of International Association for the Study of Pain.

