Tran, H. Q., et al. (2018). "PKCdelta Knockout Mice Are Protected from Dextromethorphan-Induced Serotonergic Behaviors in Mice: Involvements of Downregulation of 5-HT1A Receptor and Upregulation of Nrf2-Dependent GSH Synthesis." Mol Neurobiol 55(10): 7802-7821.

	We investigated whether a specific serotonin (5-HT) receptor-mediated mechanism was involved in dextromethorphan (DM)-induced serotonergic behaviors. We firstly observed that the activation of 5-HT1A receptor, but not 5-HT2A receptor, contributed to DM-induced serotonergic behaviors in mice. We aimed to determine whether the upregulation of 5-HT1A receptor induced by DM facilitates the specific induction of certain PKC isoform, because previous reports suggested that 5-HT1A receptor activates protein kinase C (PKC). A high dose of DM (80 mg/kg, i.p.) induced a selective induction of PKCdelta out of PKCalpha, PKCbetaI, PKCbetaII, PKCxi, and PKCdelta in the hypothalamus of wild-type (WT) mice. More importantly, 5-HT1A receptor co-immunoprecipitated PKCdelta in the presence of DM. Consistently, rottlerin, a pharmacological inhibitor of PKCdelta, or PKCdelta knockout significantly protected against increases in 5-HT1A receptor gene expression, 5-HT turnover rate, and serotonergic behaviors induced by DM. Treatment with DM resulted in an initial increase in nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) nuclear translocation and DNA-binding activity, gamma-glutamylcysteine (GCL) mRNA expression, and glutathione (GSH) level. This compensative induction was further potentiated by rottlerin or PKCdelta knockout. However, GCL mRNA and GSH/GSSG levels were decreased 6 and 12 h post-DM. These decreases were attenuated by PKCdelta inhibition. Our results suggest that interaction between 5-HT1A receptor and PKCdelta is critical for inducing DM-induced serotonergic behaviors and that inhibition of PKCdelta attenuates the serotonergic behaviors via downregulation of 5-HT1A receptor and upregulation of Nrf2-dependent GSH synthesis.

