Zazpe, A., et al. (1994). "ROLE OF 5-HT3 RECEPTORS IN BASAL AND K+-EVOKED DOPAMINE RELEASE FROM RAT OLFACTORY TUBERCLE AND STRIATAL SLICES." British Journal of Pharmacology 113(3): 968-972.

	1 The present study was aimed at examining the role of 5-HT3 receptors in basal and depolarization-evoked dopamine release from rat olfactory tubercle and striatal slices. [H-3]-dopamine ([H-3]-DA) release was measured in both brain regions and endogenous dopamine release from striatal slices was also studied. 2 The selective 5-HT3 receptor agonist 2-methyl-5-HT (0.5-10 mu M) produced a concentration-dependent increase in [H-3]-DA efflux evoked by K+ (20 mM) from slices of rat olfactory tubercle. 1-Phenylbiguanide (PBG) and 5-HT also increased K+-evoked [H-3]-DA efflux. 3 5-HT (1-100 mu M) increased in a concentration-dependent manner basal [H-3]-DA release from olfactory tubercle and striatal slices as well as endogenous DA release from striatal slices. The selective 5-HT3 receptor agonists 2-methyl-5-HT and 1-phenylbiguanide were weaker releasing agents. In all cases, the release was Ca2+ independent and tetrodotoxin insensitive. 4 5-HT3 receptor antagonists such as ondansetron, granisetron and tropisetron (0.2 mu M) significantly blocked the enhanced K+-evoked [H-3]-DA efflux from rat olfactory tubercle slices induced by 2-methyl-5-HT. A ten fold higher concentration of the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin was ineffective. 5 Much higher concentrations, up to 50 mu M, of the same 5-HT3 receptor antagonists did not block the increase in basal [H-3]-DA release from striatal or olfactory tubercle slices induced by 5-HT or the release of endogenous DA induced by 5-HT from striatal slices. 6 The DA uptake blocker nomifensine (10 mu M) did not modify the enhancement in K+-evoked [H-3]-DA efflux from rat olfactory tubercle slices induced by 2-methyl-5-HT. However, both nomifensine and cocaine significantly blocked the increase in basal dopamine release, either tritiated or endogenous, induced by 5-HT. 7 These results indicate that 5-HT3 receptors only modulate DA release when the terminal fields of dopaminergic systems have been activated. In basal conditions, 5-HT3 receptor agonists enhance DA release through a carrier-mediated mechanism. This may be of therapeutic relevance for the possible use of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists under conditions of abnormal activation of the dopaminergic system.

