Castilho, V. M. and M. L. Brandao (2001). "Conditioned antinociception and freezing using electrical stimulation of the dorsal periaqueductal gray or inferior colliculus as unconditioned stimulus are differentially regulated by 5-HT2A receptors in rats." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 155(2): 154-162.

	RATIONALE: Electrical stimulation of the dorsal periaqueductal gray matter (dPAG) and the inferior colliculus (IC) has been used as an aversive unconditioned stimulus. However, studies on the behavioral, sensorial and autonomic components of the conditioned fear elaborated in the midbrain tectum are lacking. OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to investigate the nature of the aversiveness of stimulation of the dPAG and IC as well as the modulation by 5-HT mechanisms of the fear conditioned responses to these stimulations. METHODS: Animals chronically implanted with an electrode glued to a guide cannula into the dPAG or the IC were submitted to one, two or three sessions of conditioning. Each session consisted of ten pairings of the light in a distinctive chamber (CS) with the electrical stimulation of one of these regions at the escape threshold determined previously. Control groups were submitted to the same procedure, except for the conditioning sessions in which the conditioned stimuli were presented alone in one case and performed in a different context in the other. On the next day, each animal was exposed only to the CS (testing) and the duration of freezing, number of rearings, grooming, bouts of micturition and fecal boli were recorded for 5 min. Before and after the testing session, the animals were submitted to the tail-flick test. RESULTS: The data showed that the conditioning with electrical stimulation of the dPAG and the IC caused significant increases in the time of freezing, defecation and micturition, and significant reductions in the number of rearings and grooming. On the other hand, only the conditioning with electrical stimulation of the dPAG produced significant conditioned antinociception. Microinjections of methysergide, a non-specific antagonist of 5-HT receptors, or ketanserin, an antagonist of 5-HT2A receptors, into the dPAG before testing significantly inhibited the antinociception without affecting any of the behavioral or autonomic conditioned responses. CONCLUSIONS: 1) Conditioned freezing may be produced using the electrical stimulation of the dPAG or IC as unconditioned stimuli, 2) only the pairing of CS plus dPAG but not with IC stimulation, produces significant conditioned antinociception, 3) blockade of 5-HT2A receptors inhibits conditioned antinociception but not the conditioned defensive behavior using the electrical stimulation of the dPAG as unconditioned stimulus.

