Shaikh, M. B., et al. (1997). "Serotonin 5-HT1A and 5-HT2/1C receptors in the midbrain periaqueductal gray differentially modulate defensive rage behavior elicited from the medial hypothalamus of the cat." Brain Res 765(2): 198-207.

	Recent studies have established that the expression of defensive rage behavior in the cat is mediated over a descending pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the dorsolateral quadrant of the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). The present study was designed to determine the roles played by 5-HT1A and 5-HT2/1C receptors in this region of PAG in modulating defensive rage behavior elicited from the cat's medial hypothalamus. Monopolar stimulating electrodes were implanted into the medial hypothalamus from which defensive rage behavior could be elicited by electrical stimulation. During the course of the study, the 'hissing' component of the defensive rage response was used as a measure of defensive rage behavior. Cannula-electrodes were implanted into sites within the PAG from which defensive rage could also be elicited by electrical stimulation in order that 5-HT compounds could be microinjected into behaviorally identifiable regions of the PAG at a later time. Microinjections of the selective 5-HT1A agonist, (+)-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide (8-OHDPAT) (50 pmol, 2.0 and 3.0 nmol), into the PAG suppressed the hissing response in a dose-dependent manner. Administration of the selective 5-HT1A antagonist, 4-iodo-N-[2-[4-(methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl] ethyl]-N-2-pyridinyl-benzamide hydrochloride (p-MPPI) (1.5 and 3.0 nmol), blocked the suppressive effects of 8-OHDPAT upon hissing. In contrast, microinjections of the 5-HT2/1C receptor agonist (+)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride ((+)-DOI hydrochloride) (0.01, 1.0 and 1.5 nmol) facilitated the occurrence of hissing elicited from the medial hypothalamus in a dose-dependent manner. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed the presence of 5-HT axons and preterminals throughout the PAG, and in particular, in its dorsolateral aspect which receives major inputs from the medial hypothalamus in association with defensive rage behavior. The overall findings of the study provide evidence that activation of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2/1C receptors within the midbrain PAG differentially modulate the expression of defensive rage behavior elicited from the medial hypothalamus of the cat.

