Xu, Y., et al. (2012). "[Facilitation of synaptic transmission and connections of entorhinal-hippocampal pathway by 5-HT2C receptor subtype: multi-electrode array recordings]." Sheng Li Xue Bao 64(3): 259-268.

	Using 64-channels (8 × 8) multi-electrode array technique (MED-64 system), the modulatory actions of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) 2C receptor subtype on the entorhinal (EC)-hippocampal synaptic transmission and connections were studied. One of freshly dissociated acute hippocampal slices of rats which was placed on the MED-64 probe, was subject to constant perfusion with oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF, 95% O2 and 5% CO2). Two hours after ACSF incubation, simultaneous multi-site electrophysiological recordings were performed. One electrode was selected to be used for perforant path (PP) stimulation, and the remaining 63 electrodes were used for recordings of network field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) within both CA1 and dentate gyrus (DG) that have been previously proved to be mediated by glutamate non-NMDA receptors. After stability of network fEPSPs was achieved, (±)-1(2, 5-Dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride (DOI, an agonist of 5-HT2C receptor subtype), or SB242084 (6-Chloro-2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-N-[6-[(2-methyl-3-pyridinyl)oxy]-3-pyridinyl]-1H-indole-1-carboxyamide dihydrochloride hydrate) (a selective antagonist of 5-HT2C receptor subtype) was applied for 10 min perfusion, respectively. Two-dimensional current source density (2D-CSD) analysis was also transformed by bilinear interpolation at each point of the 64 electrodes for spatial imaging of the fEPSP network responses. Based upon the polarities of fEPSP and 2D-CSD imaging, it was clearly shown that synaptic activations were evoked to occur within the molecular layer of DG and pyramidal cell layer of CA1 by the PP stimulation in which negative-going field potentials and current sink (blue) could be recorded. While, positive-going field potentials and current source (yellow) were mainly localized within the granule cell layer and hilus of DG and alveus of CA1, reflecting spread of electrical signals derived from depolarized region toward CA3 area or subiculum and fimbria along the axons. Perfusion of the hippocampal slices with DOI resulted in a significant enlargement of synaptic connection size at network level and enhancement of synaptic efficacy. However, on the contrary, perfusion with SB242084 produced reversal effect with either reduction in synaptic network size or decreased magnitude of fEPSPs (amplitude and slope) in the CA1 and DG. These results suggest that endogenous 5-HT causes facilitation of EC-CA1 and EC-DG synaptic transmission and connections via acting on 5-HT2C receptor subtype, leading to gain in synaptic transmission and enlargement of synaptic connections.

