Brown, J. W., et al. (2008). "Activation of 5-HT1A receptors in medullary raphe disrupts sleep and decreases shivering during cooling in the conscious piglet." American Journal of Physiology-Regulatory Integrative and Comparative Physiology 294(3): R884-R894.

	Activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the medullary raphe decreases sympathetically mediated brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis and peripheral vasoconstriction when previously activated with leptin, LPS, prostaglandins, or cooling. It is not known whether shivering is also modulated by medullary raphe 5-HT1A receptors. We previously showed in conscious piglets that activation of 5-HT1A receptors with (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) in the paragigantocellularis lateralis (PGCL), a medullary region lateral to the raphe that contains substantial numbers of 5-HT neurons, eliminates rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and decreases shivering in a cold environment, but does not attenuate peripheral vasoconstriction. Hoffman JM, Brown JW, Sirlin EA, Benoit AM, Gill WH, Harris MB, Darnall RA. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 293: R518-R527, 2007. We hypothesized that, during cooling, activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the medullary raphe would also eliminate REM sleep and, in contrast to activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the PGCL, would attenuate both shivering and peripheral vasoconstriction. In a continuously cool environment, dialysis of 8-OH-DPAT into the medullary raphe resulted in alternating brief periods of non-REM sleep and wakefulness and eliminated REM sleep, as observed when 8-OH-DPAT is dialyzed into the PGCL. Moreover, both shivering and peripheral vasoconstriction were significantly attenuated after 8-OH-DPAT dialysis into the medullary raphe. The effects of 8-OH-DPAT were prevented after dialysis of the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635. We conclude that, during cooling, exogenous activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the medullary raphe decreases both shivering and peripheral vasoconstriction. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that neurons expressing 5-HT1A receptors in the medullary raphe facilitate spinal motor circuits involved in shivering, as well as sympathetic stimulation of other thermoregulatory effector mechanisms.

