Raap, D. K., et al. (1999). "Sustained desensitization of hypothalamic 5-Hydroxytryptamine1A receptors after discontinuation of fluoxetine: inhibited neuroendocrine responses to 8-hydroxy-2-(Dipropylamino)Tetralin in the absence of changes in Gi/o/z proteins." J Pharmacol Exp Ther 288(2): 561-567.

	Long-term exposure to fluoxetine produces a desensitization of hypothalamic postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A receptors, indicated by a substantial inhibition of the 5-HT1A receptor-mediated stimulation of oxytocin and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion. The present study investigated the time course and mechanism of this desensitization after discontinuation of fluoxetine administration. Male rats were injected with saline or fluoxetine (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.) for 14 days and were challenged with a 5-HT1A agonist, [8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) 50 microg/kg, s.c.] 2, 4, 7, 14, 28, or 60 days post-treatment. In control animals, 8-OH-DPAT significantly increased (approximately 15-fold) plasma levels of oxytocin and ACTH. At 2 days post-treatment, oxytocin and ACTH responses to 8-OH-DPAT were reduced by 74% and 68%, respectively. During further withdrawal from fluoxetine, there was a gradual increase in the oxytocin response toward control levels. However, even 60 days after discontinuation of fluoxetine, the oxytocin response was still significantly reduced by 26% compared with controls. In contrast, the suppressed ACTH response to 8-OH-DPAT (a less-sensitive indicator of desensitization) gradually returned to control levels by day 14 of withdrawal from fluoxetine. Interestingly, the sustained reductions in the hormone responses occurred in the absence of reductions in Gz or Gi protein levels in the hypothalamus. Furthermore, this desensitization was sustained in the absence of detectable levels of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine in plasma and brain tissue. These findings suggest that the sustained desensitization of hypothalamic 5-HT1A receptor systems, observed during fluoxetine withdrawal, may be due to altered interactions among the protein components of the 5-HT1A receptor system, rather than their absolute levels.

