Wan, X. Q., et al. (2020). "Risperidone stimulates food intake and induces body weight gain via the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus 5-HT2c receptor-NPY pathway." Cns Neuroscience & Therapeutics 26(5): 558-566.

	Aims Many patients taking risperidone for the treatment of psychiatric disorders experience substantial body weight gain. Researchers have speculated that risperidone induces obesity by modulating central signals; however, the precise central mechanisms involved remain to be fully elucidated. Methods Twenty-four C57BL/6J mice were divided into four groups: a control group; a risperidone-treated group; a lorcaserin-treated group; and a combined risperidone + lorcaserin-treated group. The mice were received the corresponding treatments for 4 weeks, and their brains were collected for in situ hybridization analysis. A subset of C57BL/6J mice was administrated with risperidone or placebo, and brains were collected 60 minutes post-treatment for determination of c-fos activity. In addition, brains of NPY-GFP mice treated with or without risperidone were collected to perform colocalization of NPY and c-fos, as well as NPY and 5-HT2c receptor using immunohistochemistry. Results There was significantly elevated c-fos expression in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (Arc) of risperidone-treated mice. More than 68% c-fos-positive neurons were NPY-expressing neurons. Furthermore, in situ hybridization revealed that Arc NPY mRNA expression was significantly increased in the risperidone-treated group compared with control group. Moreover, we identified that 95% 5-HT2c receptors were colocalized with NPY positive neurons, and increased Arc NPY mRNA expression induced by risperidone was markedly reduced by cotreatment with lorcaserin, a specific 5-HT2c receptor agonist. Conclusion Our findings provide critical insight into the mechanisms underlying antipsychotic-induced obesity, which may assist the development of therapeutic strategies to address metabolic side effects of risperidone.

