Villegier, A. S., et al. (2011). "Serotonergic Mechanism Underlying Tranylcypromine Enhancement of Nicotine Self-Administration." Synapse 65(6): 479-489.

	Although nicotine is generally considered to be the main psychoactive component of tobacco, growing evidence highlights the importance of nonnicotine compounds in smoking reinforcement. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibition is a major consequence of smoking and MAO inhibitors, such as tranylcypromine, increase nicotine reinforcement. Tranylcypromine has multiple pharmacological effects, increasing monoamine release for a few hours immediately after its administration and blocking MAO activity for several days. To assess the relative role of these two actions, adult male rats were tested in consecutive daily 3-h sessions for self-administration of nicotine (3 mu g kg(-1) inj(-1), i.v.) either 20 or 1 h following administration of tranylcypromine (3 mg kg(-1)). Both paradigms were shown to produce highly significant inhibition of MAO activity. However, whereas animals readily acquired self-administration when pretreated with tranylcypromine 1 h prior to testing, they did not with the longer pretreatment interval. Such animals did immediately acquire nicotine self-administration when the tranylcypromine pretreatment interval was switched to 1 h prior to testing on Day 4, indicating that an acute effect of the MAO inhibitor was responsible for enhanced nicotine reinforcement. Several lines of evidence implicate serotonin (5-HT) as the mediator of this enhancement: (1) Tranyclypromine-enhanced nicotine reinforcement was blocked by the 5-HT2 receptor antagonists, ritanserin and ketanserin; (2) parachloroamphetamine (PCA), a 5-HT releaser, also enhanced nicotine self-administration in animals in which MAO activity was inhibited; (3) pretreatment with tranylcypromine increased PCA-induced 5-HT overflow in the nucleus accumbens. These findings suggest that MAO inhibition enhances serotonergic transmission, which serves a critical role in the reinforcing effects of nicotine. Synapse 65:479-489, 2011. (C) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

