Wang, Y. X., et al. (2014). "Protein kinase M zeta is involved in the modulatory effect of fluoxetine on hippocampal neurogenesis in vitro." International Journal of Neuropsychopharmacology 17(9): 1429-1441.

	The efficacy of chronic selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) on depression is paralleled by the recovery of deficits in hippocampal neurogenesis related to sustained stress and elevated glucocorticoids. Previous studies have shown that atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) is implicated in the regulation of neurogenesis and the antidepressant response. Whether the specific aPKC isoforms (PKC zeta, PKM zeta and PKC iota) are involved in SSRI-induced hippocampal neurogenesis and the underlying mechanisms is unknown. The present study shows that PKM zeta and PKC iota but not PKC zeta are expressed in rat embryonic hippocampal neural stem cells (NSCs), whereas PKM zeta but not PKC iota expression is increased by the SSRI fluoxetine both in the absence and presence of the glucocorticoid receptor agonist dexamethasone. PKM zeta shRNA significantly decreased neuronal proliferation and neuron-oriented differentiation, increased NSC apoptosis, and blocked the stimulatory effect of fluoxetine on NSC neurogenesis. Fluoxetine significantly increased PKM zeta expression in hippocampal NSCs in a 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A (5-HT1A) receptor-dependent manner in both the absence and presence of dexamethasone. The PKM zeta peptide blocker ZIP and MEK inhibitor U0126 significantly inhibited the increase in extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element binding protein phosphorylation in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and hippocampal NSC neurogenesis in response to fluoxetine and the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH DPAT. Collectively, our results suggest that the SSRI fluoxetine increases hippocampal NSC neurogenesis via a PKM zeta-mediated mechanism that links 5-HT1A receptor activation with the phosphorylation of the downstream MAPK signaling pathway.

