Sweet, R. A., et al. (2000). "Pharmacologic profile of perphenazine's metabolites." J Clin Psychopharmacol 20(2): 181-187.

	The authors have previously reported that in elderly patients treated with low doses of perphenazine, few extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) developed in those who were not poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. The authors hypothesized that this atypical side effect profile is due to perphenazine's principal metabolite, n-dealkylperphenazine (DAPZ), which is usually present in vivo at concentrations 1.5 to 2 times that of the parent drug. Perphenazine, DAPZ, and 7-hydroxyperphenazine affinities were examined in vitro by competition-binding analysis to isolated human receptors expressed in transfected cell lines. Perphenazine and metabolite effects were examined in vivo in 54 older patients who were treated with perphenazine, at a target dose of 0.1 mg/kg, for 10 to 17 days. Drug concentrations were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. In in vitro binding studies, DAPZ demonstrated a higher affinity for serotonin-2A receptors than for dopamine-2 receptors to an extent comparable to that of some atypical neuroleptic agents. In contrast, perphenazine and 7-hydroxyperphenazine demonstrated a higher affinity for dopamine-2 receptors than for serotonin-2A receptors. The mean +/- SD concentrations in the 54 subjects were the following: perphenazine, 1.5 +/- 1.4 ng/mL; DAPZ, 2.0 +/-1.6 ng/mL; and 7-hydroxyperphenazine, 0.8 +/- 1.9 ng/mL. The mean +/- SD quotient for the DAPZ/perphenazine concentration was 1.7 +/- 1.1 and for the 7-hydroxyperphenazine/perphenazine was 0.54 +/-1.6. EPS onset was not correlated with the perphenazine concentration, the metabolite concentrations, the DAPZ/perphenazine quotient, or the 7-hydroxyperphenazine/perphenazine quotient. Despite a moderately atypical receptor-binding profile, DAPZ does not seem to moderate perphenazine effects in vivo in older patients. This outcome likely reflects the low potency of DAPZ for dopamine-2 and serotonin-2A receptors relative to the potency of perphenazine for these receptors. Further exploration of atypical properties of DAPZ should include de novo administration of this metabolite in animal models.

