Wang, L. E., et al. (2010). "Potentiating effect of spinosin, a C-glycoside flavonoid of Semen Ziziphi spinosae, on pentobarbital-induced sleep may be related to postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors." Phytomedicine 17(6): 404-409.

	Previous results have suggested that spinosin, a C-glycoside flavonoid of Semen Ziziphi spinosae, potentiates pentobarbital-Induced sleep via the serotonergic system. The present study investigated whether spinosin potentiates pentobarbital-induced sleep via serotonin-1A (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT1A) receptors The results demonstrated that spinosin significantly augmented pentobarbital (35 mg/kg, i p)-induced sleep in rats, reflected by reduced sleep latency and increased total sleep time, non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep time, and REM sleep time With regard to NREM sleep duration, spinosin mainly increased slow-wave sleep (SWS). Additionally, spinosin (15 mg/kg, i g.) significantly antagonized 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced reductions in total sleep time, NREM sleep, REM sleep, and SWS in pentobarbital-treated rats. These results suggest that spinosin may be an antagonist at postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors because these effects of 8-OH-DPAT were considered to be mediated via postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors. Moreover, co-administration of spinosin and the 5-HT1A antagonist 4-iodo-N-{2-[4-(methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl}-N-2-pyridinylbenzamide (p-MPPI), at doses that are ineffective when administered alone (spinosin 5 mg/kg, p-MPPI 1 mg/kg), had significant augmentative effects on pentobarbital-induced sleep, reflected by reduced sleep latency and increased total sleep time, NREM sleep, and REM sleep In contrast to the attenuating effects of p-MPPI on REM sleep via presynaptic 5-HT1A autoreceptors, 15 mg/kg spinosin significantly increased REM sleep These results suggest that the effect of spinosin on REM sleep in pentobarbital-treated rats may be related to postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors (C) 2010 Elsevier GmbH All rights reserved

