Zhang, Z. J., et al. (2001). "Anxiolytic-like effects of DAIZAC, a selective high-affinity 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, in the mouse elevated plus-maze." Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behavior 69(3-4): 571-578.

	Behavioral effects of des amino-3-iodozacopride (DAIZAC) [(S)-5-chloro-3-iodo-2-methoxy-N-(1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl)benzamide], a selective high-affinity 5-HT3 receptor antagonist (K-D, 0.14 nM), were evaluated in the mouse elevated plus-maze using the anxiolytic benzodiazepine, diazepam, as a positive control. DAIZAC treatment produced a significant dose-related increase in the time spent in the open arm. The increased total time in the open arm resulted from a significant dose-dependent increase in the number of entries into that arm. The minimum dose of DAIZAC associated with a statistically significant increase in entries and time spent in the open arm was 0.05 mg/kg ip, consistent with its high affinity for the 5-HT3 receptor. DAIZAC did not affect the amount of time spent in the open arm after each entry. Thus, DAIZAC reduced apparent avoidance of the open arm when the animal was in the central compartment, without affecting active avoidance of that arm when the animal was in the exposed condition. The increase in the open-arm entries was accompanied by a corresponding reduction in the number of entries into the closed arm with a consequent reduction in the time spent in the closed arm. The time spent in the closed arm after each entry was not altered by DAIZAC administration. As such, the sole apparent effect of DAIZAC was to alter the choice of arm to enter when the animal was in the central compartment. Diazepam also significantly increased total time in the open ann; however, the increase was not attributable to a single behavioral factor. The anxiolytic-like effects of DAIZAC reached maximum by 20-30 min and returned to baseline levels by 90 min. Ex vivo binding studies found that levels of DAIZAC-like activity assayed in brains of mice 25 min after DAIZAC injection were significantly correlated with the behavioral parameters associated with anxiolysis. These results indicate that DAIZAC produces dose-dependent anxiolytic-like behavioral changes in the mouse elevated plus-maze that are cot-related with brain DAIZAC-like activity. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.

