Xiao, W., et al. (2016). "[Effect of Manual Acupuncture Intervention on Levels of 5-HTT, 5-HT1AR, NEalpha2R of Brain Tissues in Rats with Post-stroke Depression]." Zhen Ci Yan Jiu 41(6): 528-534.

	OBJECTIVE: To observe the effect of manual acupuncture intervention on serotonin transporter (5-HTT), 5-HT 1 A receptor (5-HT1AR), norepinephrine (NE) alpha receptor 2 (NEalpha2R) protein of brain tissues in rats with post-stroke depression (PSD). METHODS: Forty SD rats were randomly divided into normal group, model group, medication group and acupuncture group, with 10 rats in each. The PSD model was established by the combination of middle cerebral artery occlusion and chronic non- predictable mild stress. Rats of the medication group were treated by gavage of fluoxetine (2 mg/kg, once daily for 21 days), and those of the acupuncture group treated by manual acupuncture stimulation of "Baihui"(GV 20), "Fengfu" (GV 16), bilateral"Shenmen" (HT 7) and "Taichong" (LR 3) for 20 min, once a day for 21 days, with one day's interval between each every 7 days. The animals' neurological deficit was detected by Zea Longa's scaling, and the depression status assessed by sugar solution consumption, and the locomotor activity (crossing and rearing times in 5 min) detected by open-field tests. The contents of 5-HT, NE, acetylcholine (ACh), gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), and glutamate (Glu) of the cerebral cortex were detected using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and expression levels of 5-HTT, 5-HT1AR, NEalpha2R proteins of the hippocampus, raphe nuclei and locus coeruleus(LC) tissues detected using western blotting (EB), respectively. RESULTS: After modeling, the neurological deficit score was significantly increased, while the sugar solution consumption and the locomotor activities (crossi-ng and rearing times in 5 min) were notably decreased (P<0.05, P<0.001). Findings of HPLC and WB indicated that after modeling, the cerebrocortical 5-HT and NE contents and 5-HTT protein expression levels in the hippocampus, raphe nucleus and LC were obviously decreased and the cortical ACh, GABA and Glu contents as well as the expression of 5-HT1AR and NEalpha2R proteins in the hippocampus, raphe nucleus and LC considerably increased in the model group (P<0.01). Following acupuncture intervention and medication, the increased neurological deficit score, cortical ACh, GABA and Glu contents, and the expression le-vels of 5-HT1AR and NEalpha2R proteins in the hippocampus, rahpe nucleus and LC, as well as the decreased sugar solution consumption, crossing and rearing times of open field tests, cortical 5-HT and NE contents, as well as cortical 5-HT protein expression were all reversed in both acupuncture and medication groups (P<0.05, P<0.01). No significant differences were found between the acupuncture and medication groups in all the above-mentioned indexes (P>0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Acupuncture can improve the locomotor function changes in stroke rats with depression after stroke, which may be associated with its effects in suppressing the up-regulated cortical ACh, GABA, Glu contents, the expression levels of 5-HT1AR and NEalpha2R proteins in the hippocampus, raphe nucleus and LC, and the down-regulated 5-HT and NE contents in the cerebral cortex and 5-HTT protein expression levels in the hippocampus, raphe nucleus and LC.

