Wang, X., et al. (2007). "Hydroxytryptamine 1A/7 and 4 alpha receptors differentially prevent opioid-induced inhibition of brain stem cardiorespiratory function." Hypertension 50(2): 368-376.

	Opioids evoke respiratory depression, bradycardia, and reduced respiratory sinus arrhythmia, whereas serotonin (5-HT) agonists stimulate respiration and cardiorespiratory interactions. This study tested whether serotonin agonists can prevent the inhibitory effects of opioids on cardiorespiratory function. Spontaneous and rhythmic inspiratory-related activity and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmission to premotor parasympathetic cardioinhibitory neurons in the nucleus ambiguus were recorded simultaneously in an in vitro thick slice preparation. The mu-opioid agonist fentanyl inhibited respiratory frequency. The 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A/7 receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin increased respiratory frequency by itself and also prevented the fentanyl- induced respiratory depression. The 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 alpha agonist BIMU-8 did not by itself change inspiratory activity but prevented the mu-opioid mediated respiratory depression. Both spontaneous and inspiratory-evoked GABAergic neurotransmission to cardiac vagal neurons were inhibited by fentanyl. 8- Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin inhibited spontaneous but not inspiratory-evoked GABAergic activity to parasympathetic cardiac neurons. However, 8- hydroxy-2-(di-npropylamino) tetralin differentially altered the opioid-mediated depression of inspiratory-evoked GABAergic activity but did not change the opioid-induced reduction in spontaneous GABAergic neurotransmission. In contrast, BIMU-8 did not alter GABAergic neurotransmission to cardiac vagal neurons by itself but prevented the fentanyl depression of both spontaneous and inspiratory-elicited GABAergic neurotransmission to cardiac vagal neurons. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, the inhibition of GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents with fentanyl is prevented by coapplication of BIMU-8, indicating that BIMU-8 acts at presynaptic GABAergic terminals to prevent fentanyl-induced depression. These results suggest that activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors, particularly 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 alpha agonists, may be a useful therapeutic approach in preventing opioid- evoked cardiorespiratory depression.

