Sprouse, J., et al. (2004). "Serotonin-induced phase advances of SCN neuronal firing in vitro: a possible role for 5-HT5A receptors?" Synapse 54(2): 111-118.

	Spontaneous firing rates of neurons in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) follow a consistent pattern, peaking near the midpoint of the light phase in a 12:12 light/dark schedule, and repeating this brief period of increased activity in subsequent circadian cycles. These carefully timed fluctuations reflect the output signal of the SCN, long recognized as the site of the endogenous biological clock in mammals. In rat hypothalamic slices, bath incubations of 8-OH-DPAT had previously been shown to elicit phase advances when applied at ZT6 (or 6 h following the onset of light), an action that could readily be attributed to 5-HT7 receptor activation. The present studies set out with the simple goal of establishing that the same receptor mechanism was responsible for the phase-shifting actions of 5-HT itself. Surprisingly, the phase advances elicited by 5-HT (0.5 microM, 1 h) at ZT6 were reduced by one 5-HT7 antagonist, ritanserin (10 microM), but not by another, mesulergine (10 microM). Receptor binding studies demonstrated a 25-fold greater affinity of ritanserin for h5-HT5A sites compared to mesulergine (Ki = 71 nM vs. 1,800 nM), an observation suggestive of a 5-HT5A mechanism for 5-HT and consistent with earlier observations of robust labeling of 5-HT5A sites in the SCN. 5-HT generated by the addition of L-tryptophan (10 microM, 1 h) to the slices displayed the same pattern of sensitivity, that is, blockade by ritanserin but not by mesulergine. Rp-cAMPS, a cAMP antagonist, failed to block the phase shifts elicited by 5-HT at a concentration (1 microM) previously shown to be effective against 8-OH-DPAT-induced phase shifts, in keeping with the proposed negative coupling of 5-HT5A receptors to cAMP production. Taken together, these results suggest that activation of both 5-HT5A and 5-HT7 receptors can produce phase advances of the circadian clock in vitro when they occur during mid-subjective day.

