Zhang, H., et al. (2018). "Optogenetic activation of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe suppresses seizure-induced respiratory arrest and produces anticonvulsant effect in the DBA/1 mouse SUDEP model." Neurobiol Dis 110: 47-58.

	Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is a devastating epilepsy complication. Seizure-induced respiratory arrest (S-IRA) occurs in many witnessed SUDEP patients and animal models as an initiating event leading to death. Thus, understanding the mechanisms underlying S-IRA will advance the development of preventive strategies against SUDEP. Serotonin (5-HT) is an important modulator for many vital functions, including respiration and arousal, and a deficiency of 5-HT signaling is strongly implicated in S-IRA in animal models, including the DBA/1 mouse. However, the brain structures that contribute to S-IRA remain elusive. We hypothesized that the dorsal raphe (DR), which sends 5-HT projections to the forebrain, is implicated in S-IRA. The present study used optogenetics in the DBA/1 mouse model of SUDEP to selectively activate 5-HT neurons in the DR. Photostimulation of DR 5-HT neurons significantly and reversibly reduced the incidence of S-IRA evoked by acoustic stimulation. Activation of 5-HT neurons in the DR suppressed tonic seizures in most DBA/1 mice without altering the seizure latency and duration of wild running and clonic seizures evoked by acoustic stimulation. This suppressant effect of photostimulation on S-IRA is independent of seizure models, as optogenetic stimulation of DR also reduced S-IRA induced by pentylenetetrazole, a proconvulsant widely used to model human generalized seizures. The S-IRA-suppressing effect of photostimulation was increased by 5-hydroxytryptophan, a chemical precursor for 5-HT synthesis, and was reversed by ondansetron, a specific 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, indicating that reduction of S-IRA by photostimulation of the DR is specifically mediated by enhanced 5-HT neurotransmission. Our findings suggest that deficits in 5-HT neurotransmission in the DR are implicated in S-IRA in DBA/1 mice, and that targeted intervention in the DR is potentially useful for prevention of SUDEP.

