Uezono, Y., et al. (2004). "Involvement of G protein beta gamma-subunits in diverse signaling induced by G(i/o)-coupled receptors: study using the Xenopus oocyte expression system." American Journal of Physiology-Cell Physiology 287(4): C885-C894.

	We studied the functions of betagamma-subunits of G(i/o) protein using the Xenopus oocyte expression system. Isoproterenol (ISO) elicited cAMP production and slowly activating Cl- currents in oocytes expressing beta(2)-adrenoceptor and the protein kinase A-dependent Cl- channel encoded by the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), [D-Ala(2), D-Leu(5)]-enkephalin (DADLE), and baclofen enhanced ISO-induced cAMP levels and CFTR currents in oocytes expressing beta(2)-adrenoceptor-CFTR and 5-HT1A receptor (5-HT1AR), delta-opioid receptor, or GABA(B) receptor, respectively. 5-HT also enhanced pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) 38-induced cAMP levels and CFTR currents in oocytes expressing PACAP receptor, CFTR and 5-HT1AR. The 5-HT-induced enhancement of G(s)-coupled receptor-mediated currents was abrogated by pretreatment with pertussis toxin (PTX) and coexpression of G transducin alpha (G(t)alpha). The 5-HT-induced enhancement was further augmented by coexpression of the Gbetagamma- activated form of adenylate cyclase (AC) type II but not AC type III. Thus betagamma-subunits of G(i/o) protein contribute to the enhancement of G(s)-coupled receptor-mediated responses. 5-HT and DADLE did not elicit any currents in oocytes expressing 5-HT1AR or delta-opioid receptor alone. They elicited Ca2+-activated Cl- currents in oocytes coexpressing these receptors with the Gbetagamma-activated form of phospholipase C (PLC)-beta2 but not with PLC-beta1. These currents were inhibited by pretreatment with PTX and coexpression of G(t)alpha, suggesting that betagamma-subunits of G(i/o) protein activate PLC-beta2 and then cause intracellular Ca2+ mobilization. Our results indicate that betagamma-subunits of G(i/o) protein participate in diverse intracellular signals, enhancement of G(s)-coupled receptor-mediated responses, and intracellular Ca2+ mobilization.

