Birthelmer, A., et al. (2002). "5,7-Dihydroxytryptamine lesions enhance and serotonergic grafts normalize the evoked overflow of acetylcholine in rat hippocampal slices." Eur J Neurosci 16(10): 1839-1849.

	Adult rats were subjected to intracerebroventricular injections of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT; 150 micro g) and, 15 days later, to intrahippocampal grafts of fetal raphe cell suspensions. About 11 months later, we assessed baseline and electrically evoked release of tritium ([3H]) in hippocampal slices, preloaded with tritiated ([3H])choline or [3H]serotonin (5-HT), in the presence or absence of the 5-HT1B receptor agonist CP-93,129 and the 5-HT receptor antagonist methiothepine. HPLC determinations of monoamine concentrations were also performed. The lesions reduced the concentration of 5-HT (-90%) and the accumulation (-80%) as well as the evoked release (-90%) of [3H]5-HT. They also decreased the inhibitory effects of CP-93,129 on the evoked release of [3H]5-HT. Most interestingly, they facilitated the evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine (+20%). In slices from rats subjected to lesions and grafts, the responsiveness of the serotonergic autoreceptors (presumably located on the terminals of the grafted neurons) and the release of acetylcholine were close to normal. These results confirm that grafts rich in serotonergic neurons may partially compensate for the dramatic effects of 5,7-DHT lesions on serotonergic hippocampal functions. The lesion-induced reduction of the 5-HT1B autoreceptor-mediated inhibition of evoked 5-HT release may be an adaptation enhancing serotonergic transmission in the (few) remaining terminals. The facilitated release of acetylcholine is probably caused by a reduced serotonergic tone on the inhibitory 5-HT1B heteroreceptors of the cholinergic terminals. When related to data in the literature, this facilitation may be of particular interest in terms of transmitter-based strategies developed to tackle cognitive symptoms related to neurodegenerative diseases.

