Suhr, R., et al. (1999). "Modulation of acetylcholine and 5-hydroxytryptamine release in hippocampal slices of rats with fimbria-fornix lesions and intrahippocampal grafts containing cholinergic and/or serotonergic neurons." Brain Res Bull 50(1): 15-25.

	Three-month-old Long-Evans female rats sustained aspirative lesions of the dorsal septohippocampal pathways and, 2 weeks later, received intrahippocampal suspension grafts containing fetal cells from the mesencephalic raphe (rich in serotonergic neurons; RAPHE), the medial septum and the diagonal band of Broca (rich in cholinergic neurons; SEPT), or a mixture of both (COTR). Lesion-only (LES) and sham-operated rats (SHAM) were used as controls. Hippocampal slices of these rats (5-9 month after surgery) were preincubated with [3H]choline or [3H]5-HT, superfused continuously (in the presence of hemicholinium-3 or fluvoxamine) and stimulated electrically (360 pulses, 2 ms, 3 Hz, 26-28 mA) in order to study the presynaptic modulation of acetylcholine (ACh) and serotonin (5-HT) release. The accumulation of [3H]choline and the evoked overflow of [3H]ACh were significantly reduced in slices from LES and RAPHE rats, but reached a close-to-normal level in SEPT and COTR rats. As to accumulation and overflow of [3H]5-HT, the lesion-induced reduction was compensated for only in RAPHE and COTR rats. The relative amount of evoked [3H]5-HT release (in % of tissue-3H) was significantly increased in LES and SEPT rats. Only slight differences (group LES) were found in the sensitivity of muscarinic and serotonergic autoreceptors towards oxotremorine and CP 93,129, respectively. Moreover, CP 93,129 induced a significantly weaker inhibition of ACh release in slices of COTR rats than in all other groups. Using the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT and antagonist Way 100,635, no evidence for a modulatory influence of 5-HT1A receptors was found in RAPHE and COTR rats. It is concluded that despite substantial lesion- and graft-induced changes in the amount of ACh and 5-HT released by hippocampal slices of lesion-only or grafted rats, the presynaptic modulation of these transmitters is only slightly affected by changes in the neuronal environment.

