Airhart, M. J., et al. (2012). "Adverse effects of serotonin depletion in developing zebrafish." Neurotoxicol Teratol 34(1): 152-160.

	In this study, p-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA), an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase (the rate limiting enzyme of serotonin synthesis), was used to reduce serotonin (5HT) levels during early development in zebrafish embryos. One day old dechorionated embryos were treated with 25 μM pCPA for 24h and subsequently rescued. Immunohistological studies using a 5HT antibody confirmed that 5HT neurons in the brain and spinal cord were depleted of transmitter by 2 days post fertilization (dpf). Twenty four hours after pCPA exposure embryos were unable to burst swim and were nearly paralyzed. Movement began to improve at 4 dpf, and by 7 dpf, larvae exhibited swimming activity. Rescued larvae continued to grow in rostrocaudal length over 5 days post-rescue, but their length was always 16-21% below controls. Surprisingly, both groups displayed the same number of myotomes. To examine whether hypertonicity of myotomes in treated embryos played a role in their shorter rostrocaudal lengths, 1 dpf embryos were exposed to a combination of 25 μM pCPA and 0.6 mM of the sodium channel blocker ethyl 3-aminobenzoate methanesulfonate (MS-222). After a 24 hour exposure, the embryos exhibited the same rostrocaudal length as control embryos suggesting that myotome hypertonicity plays a major role in the decreased axial length of the treated larvae. In addition, pCPA treated 2 dpf embryos exhibited abnormal notochordal morphology that persisted throughout recovery. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to determine the relative levels of the serotonin 1A receptor (5HT(1A)) transcript and the serotonin transporter (SERT) transcript in the brain and spinal cord of control and treated embryos. Transcripts were present in both brain and spinal cord as early as 1 dpf and reached maximal concentrations by 3 dpf. Embryos treated with pCPA demonstrated a decrease in the concentration of 5HT(1A) transcript in both brain and spinal cord. While SERT transcript levels remained unaffected in brain, they were decreased in spinal cord. Five days subsequent to pCPA rescue, 5HT(1A) transcript concentrations remained decreased in brain while SERT transcript levels were elevated in both regions. These findings suggest that reduction of 5HT during early zebrafish development may have an adverse effect on body length, notochordal morphology, locomotor behavior, and serotonin message-related expression.

