Tadjalli, A. and G. S. Mitchell (2019). "Cervical spinal 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2B) receptors are both necessary for moderate acute intermittent hypoxia-induced phrenic long-term facilitation." J Appl Physiol (1985) 127(2): 432-443.

	Serotonin (5-HT) is a key regulator of spinal respiratory motor plasticity. For example, spinal 5-HT receptor activation is necessary for the induction of phrenic long-term facilitation (pLTF), a form of respiratory motor plasticity triggered by moderate acute intermittent hypoxia (mAIH). mAIH-induced pLTF is blocked by cervical spinal application of the broad-spectrum 5-HT-receptor antagonist, methysergide. However, methysergide does not allow distinctions between the relative contributions of different 5-HT receptor subtypes. Intravenous administration of the Gq protein-coupled 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist ketanserin blocks mAIH-induced pLTF when administered before, but not after, mAIH; thus, 5-HT(2) receptor activation is necessary for the induction but not maintenance of mAIH-induced pLTF. However, systemic ketanserin administration does not identify the site of the relevant 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors. Furthermore, this approach does not differentiate between the roles of 5-HT(2A) versus 5-HT(2C) receptors, nor does it preclude involvement of other Gq protein-coupled metabotropic 5-HT receptors capable of eliciting long-lasting phrenic motor facilitation, such as 5-HT(2B) receptors. Here we tested the hypothesis that mAIH-induced pLTF requires cervical spinal 5-HT(2) receptor activation and determined which 5-HT(2) receptor subtypes are involved. Anesthetized, paralyzed, and ventilated adult male Sprague Dawley rats were pretreated intrathecally with cervical (~C3-C5) spinal injections of subtype selective 5-HT(2A/2C), 5-HT(2B), or 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonists before mAIH. Whereas cervical spinal 5-HT(2C) receptor inhibition had no impact on mAIH-induced pLTF, pLTF was no longer observed after pretreatment with either 5-HT(2A/2C) or 5-HT(2B) receptor antagonists. Furthermore, spinal pretreatment with an MEK/ERK MAPK inhibitor blocked phrenic motor facilitation elicited by intrathecal injections of 5-HT(2A) but not 5-HT(2B) receptor agonists. Thus, mAIH-induced pLTF requires concurrent cervical spinal activation of both 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2B) receptors. However, these distinct receptor subtypes contribute to phrenic motor facilitation via distinct downstream signaling cascades that differ in their requirement for ERK MAPK signaling. The demonstration that both 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2B) receptors make unique contributions to mAIH-induced pLTF advances our understanding of mechanisms that underlie 5-HT-induced phrenic motor plasticity.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Moderate acute intermittent hypoxia (mAIH) triggers a persistent enhancement in phrenic motor output, an effect termed phrenic long-term facilitation (pLTF). mAIH-induced pLTF is blocked by cervical spinal application of the broad-spectrum serotonin (5-HT) receptor antagonist methysergide, demonstrating the need for spinal 5-HT receptor activation. However, the exact type of 5-HT receptors required for initiation of pLTF remains unknown. To the best of out knowledge, the present study is the first to demonstrate that 1) spinal coactivation of two distinct Gq protein-coupled 5-HT(2) receptor subtypes is necessary for mAIH-induced pLTF, and 2) these receptors contribute to pLTF via cascades that differ in their requirement for ERK MAPK signaling.

