AbdelFattah, A. F. M., et al. (1997). "Central serotonin level-dependent changes in body temperature following administration of tryptophan to pargyline- and harmaline-pretreated rats." Gen Pharmacol 28(3): 405-409.

	1. The effect of tryptophan on body temperature was studied in rats pretreated with pargyline, an irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), and harmaline, a reversible MAOI. 2. Tryptophan (100 mg/kg IP) produced hypothermia followed by hyperthermia in pargyline-pretreated rats, and hypothermia in harmaline pretreated rats, but tryptophan did not cause body temperature changes by itself. 3. The tryptophan induced hypo- and hyperthermic effects, which peaked at about 1 and 6 hr after tryptophan administration, respectively, were accompanied by a significant increase in serotonin (5-HT) levels in the pargyline pretreated rat brain (75%-138.7% and 207%-240.9% increase, respectively), and the 5-HT levels in the hyperthermic state were significantly higher than those in the hypothermic state. 4. In harmaline pretreated rats, tryptophan also increased the central 5-HT levels (80.5%-95.5% increase) in the hypothermic state, and the effect peaked at about 1 hr after tryptophan administration, The central 5-HT levels in harmaline pretreated rats slightly decreased at 6 hr after tryptophan administration and were significantly lower than those in the hyperthermic state in the pargyline-pretreated rats. 5. Tryptophan (100 mg/kg IP) administration decreased 5-hydroxy indole acetic acid (5-HIAA) levels, 5-HT turnover, and dopamine (DA) turnover in the brain of pargyline-pretreated rats, but these parameters were not significantly different between the hypothermic and hyperthermic states (i.e., at 1 and 6 hr after tryptophan administration, respectively). 6. These results suggest that the tryptophan induced body temperature change depends on the different 5-HT levels in the brain and that the 5-HT level needed to induce hyperthermia is higher than that needed to induce hypothermia. Copyright (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Inc.

