Sakurai-Yamashita, Y., et al. (2003). "Involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine(4) receptor in the exacerbation of neuronal loss by psychological stress in the hippocampus of SHRSP with a transient isphemia." Brain Res 973(1): 92-98.

	A transient forebrain ischemia produced a delayed neuronal death of the hippocampus pyramidal cells in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, (SHRSP). Long term exposure of rats to stress has been reported to induce deleterious effects on the brain including morphological neuronal degeneration in the hippocampus. The present study was designed to examine the effects of psychological and physical stress on the ischemia-related neuronal death and the effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine, (5-HT4) receptor antagonist. SHRSP were exposed to the psychological or physical stress for 60 min in the communication box once or repeatedly for 3 days and occluded. SB204070, a 5-HT4 receptor antagonist was injected before the occlusion. Seven days after the occlusion, the number of the neurons damaged morphologically was examined. A transient bilateral carotid occlusion produced a neuronal death of the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus in a time-dependent manned between 3 and 10 min. A 4 min occlusion induced very little morphological damage and a 5 min one produced a significant neuronal death. Exposure of rats to the psychological stress during 60 min for 3 days before the ischemic insults damaged the pyramidal cells by 4 min ischemia much more than without stress. Physical stress daily for 3 times also increased the damaged neurons. Pretreatment of SB204070 0.1 mg/kg after the stress exposure for 3 days significantly decreased the neuronal damage exacerbated by the stress exposure; however, it did not alter the damage induced by 4 or 10 min occlusion without stress. These results suggest that the repeated exposure of animals to the stress dramatically exacerbates the neuronal death by a transient ischemia and the 5-HT4 receptor may be involved in the stress-induced exacerbating mechanism of the neuronal damage. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

