Sipe, K., et al. (2004). "Serotonin 2A receptors modulate tail-skin temperature in two rodent models of estrogen deficiency-related thermoregulatory dysfunction." Brain Res 1028(2): 191-202.

	Menopause-associated thermoregulatory dysfunction, including hot flushes and night sweats, is effectively treated by hormonal therapies that include estrogens. Evidence suggests that estrogen regulates serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor expression and that 5-HT(2A) receptors are involved in thermoregulation. Therefore, the role of 5-HT(2A) receptors in thermoregulation was assessed in two rat models of ovariectomy-induced thermoregulatory dysfunction. The first model is based on measurement of the tail-skin temperature (TST) increase following naloxone-induced withdrawal in morphine-dependent ovariectomized (OVX) rats (MD model), while the second model relies on telemetric assessment of diurnal TST changes in ovariectomized rats (telemetry model). Treatment with a 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor agonist, (-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride (DOI), prevented the naloxone-induced TST increase in the MD model and restored normal active-phase TST in the telemetry model. The selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, MDL-100907, had no effect on the naloxone-induced flush when administered alone in the MD model, but it decreased DOI's ability to abate the flush. In the telemetry model, MDL-100907 attenuated the DOI-induced decrease in active-phase TST. Interestingly, MDL-100907 increased TST in both models when given alone, with the TST increase occurring prior to the naloxone-induced flush in the MD model. To evaluate the role of central nervous system (CNS) 5-HT(2A) receptors in TST regulation, DOI was administered in combination with a known peripheral 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist, xylamidine, in the MD model. Xylamidine had no effect on DOI's ability to abate the naloxone-induced flush. These results indicate that activation of central 5-HT(2A) receptors restores temperature regulation in two rodent models of ovariectomy-induced thermoregulatory dysfunction.

