Carey, R., et al. (2000). "8-OH DPAT can restore the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine blocked by haloperidol." Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behavior 66(4): 863-872.

	In the first experiment, separate groups of rats (n = 7) were treated with either saline, cocaine (10 mg/kg), haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg), or cocaine (10 mg/kg) plus haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg). Locomotor behavior was measured in an open-field environment, and cocaine induced a reliable locomotor stimulant effect compared to saline-treated animals. Haloperidol produced a progressive decline in locomotion over the 5 test days. Haloperidol also blocked cocaine stimulant effects compared to cocaine-treated animals. In the second experiment, five groups (n = 7) of animals were treated either with saline, cocaine (10 mg/kg), 8-OH DPAT (0.2 mg/kg), 8-OH DPAT (0.2 mg/kg) plus haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg), or 8-OH DPAT (0.2 mg/kg) plus haloperidol 0.1 mg/kg plus cocaine (10 mg/kg). Over the course of 5 days of treatment, cocaine induced a locomotor stimulant effect. Saline and 8-OH DPAT animals did not differ in terms of locomotion. The 0.1 mg/kg haloperidol plus 0.2 mg/kg 8-OH DPAT treatment decreased locomotion compared to the saline group, but the group given 0.2 mg/kg 8-OH DPAT plus 0.1 mg/kg haloperidol plus cocaine (10 mg/kg) exhibited a locomotor stimulant effect equivalent to the cocaine group. In a third experiment, it was found that the 0.2 mg/kg 8-OH DPAT treatment did not enhance the locomotor stimulant effect of cocaine. Thus, the 8-OH DPAT treatment was able to restore a cocaine locomotor stimulant effect in animals treated with haloperidol without directly enhancing the lo comotor stimulant effects of cocaine. In Experiments 2 and 3, entries into the central zone of the open field were measured. Cocaine reliably increased central zone entries. The 8-OH DPAT treatment, however, selectively blocked this behavioral effect of cocaine suggesting a qualitative influence of 5-HT1A receptors upon cocaine, independent of locomotion activation by cocaine. Ex vivo measurements of dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolism in limbic tissue were consistent with the established effects of cocaine, haloperidol, and 8-OH DPAT upon dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine neurotransmission. In addition, measurement of cocaine brain concentration indicated that neither haloperidol or 8-OH DPAT affected cocaine concentration in brain. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Inc.

