Teodoro, R., et al. (2015). "A Promising PET Tracer for Imaging of alpha(7) Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors in the Brain: Design, Synthesis, and in Vivo Evaluation of a Dibenzothiophene-Based Radioligand." Molecules 20(10): 18387-18421.

	Changes in the expression of (7) nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ((7) nAChRs) in the human brain are widely assumed to be associated with neurological and neurooncological processes. Investigation of these receptors invivo depends on the availability of imaging agents such as radioactively labelled ligands applicable in positron emission tomography (PET). We report on a series of new ligands for (7) nAChRs designed by the combination of dibenzothiophene dioxide as a novel hydrogen bond acceptor functionality with diazabicyclononane as an established cationic center. To assess the structure-activity relationship (SAR) of this new basic structure, we further modified the cationic center systematically by introduction of three different piperazine-based scaffolds. Based on invitro binding affinity and selectivity, assessed by radioligand displacement studies at different rat and human nAChR subtypes and at the structurally related human 5-HT3 receptor, we selected the compound 7-(1,4-diazabicyclo[3.2.2]nonan-4-yl)-2-fluorodibenzo-[b,d]thiophene 5,5-dioxide (10a) for radiolabeling and further evaluation invivo. Radiosynthesis of [F-18]10a was optimized and transferred to an automated module. Dynamic PET imaging studies with [F-18]10a in piglets and a monkey demonstrated high uptake of radioactivity in the brain, followed by washout and target-region specific accumulation under baseline conditions. Kinetic analysis of [F-18]10a in pig was performed using a two-tissue compartment model with arterial-derived input function. Our initial evaluation revealed that the dibenzothiophene-based PET radioligand [F-18]10a ([F-18]DBT-10) has high potential to provide clinically relevant information about the expression and availability of (7) nAChR in the brain.

