Bouchelet, I., et al. (1996). "Differential expression of sumatriptan-sensitive 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors in human trigeminal ganglia and cerebral blood vessels." Mol Pharmacol 50(2): 219-223.

	The efficacy of sumatriptan in migraine relief has been attributed to its interaction with 5-hydroxytryptamine(1D) (5-HT1D) receptors in cerebral blood vessels and/or on nerve endings of the trigeminovascular system in the dura mater. Using the high sensitivity of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification, we investigated the expression of the sumatriptan-sensitive 5-HT receptors, namely, the 5-HT1D alpha, 5-HT1D beta, and 5-HT1F subtypes in human trigeminal ganglia (10 experiments) and cerebral blood vessels (seven experiments) obtained postmortem. Messages for the 5-HT1D alpha and 5-HT1D beta receptors were expressed in all except one of the 10 trigeminal ganglia studied. Expression of the 5-HT1F receptor was detected by gel electrophoresis of the PCR products in six ganglia and by Southern blot hybridization in two additional cases. In human brain vessels, message for the 5-HT1D beta receptor was present in all samples, whereas specific PCR products corresponding to the 5-HT1D alpha receptor could hardly be detected in only two preparations. PCR products indicative of the 5-HT1F receptor message were detected by gel electrophoresis in three brain vessel preparations and confirmed in the other four by Southern blot hybridization. Restriction mapping and sequence analysis of all PCR products identified the expected human 5-HT receptor DNA sequences. The data confirm that the 5-HT1D beta receptor is the dominant species in human cerebral blood vessels and further show that this receptor and the 5-HT1F are expressed in both neural and vascular tissues. In contrast, the data point to a preferential expression of 5-HT1D alpha receptors in neural versus vascular tissues and strongly reemphasize the need for selective 5-HT1D alpha agonists in the identification of the target tissue(s) for antimigraine drugs. Moreover, the data stress the importance to better understand the role of 5-HT1F receptors in cerebrovascular functions and dural inflammation and further raise interest regarding their possible involvement in migraine therapy.

