Wang, S., et al. (2009). "Unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway induces an increase of neuronal firing of the midbrain raphe nuclei 5-HT neurons and a decrease of their response to 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation in the rat." Neuroscience 159(2): 850-861.

	Several studies have shown that the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin, 5-HT) system is severely affected after degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. In the present study, we examined the changes in the firing rate and firing pattern of the dorsal and median raphe nuclei (DRN and MRN) 5-HT neurons, and the effect of the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (R)-(+)-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) and antagonist (N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-2-pyridylcyclohexane carboxamide maleate salt (WAY-100635) on the neuronal firing in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta by using extracellular recording. The unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway significantly increased the mean firing rate of DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons compared with normal rats, and the firing pattern of these neurons also changed significantly towards a more bursty one. The lower dose of 8-OH-DPAT, 4 microg/kg (cumulative doses, i.v.), completely inhibited the firing activity of all DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons examined in normal and sham rats. In contrast to normal and sham rats, only the higher doses of 8-OH-DPAT, 128 and 64 microg/kg, completely inhibited the firing rate of DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, respectively. Furthermore, the local application of 8-OH-DPAT, 1.5 microg, in the DRN completely inhibited the firing rate of 5-HT neurons in normal and sham rats, while having no effect on firing rate in the lesioned rats. Altogether, these results indicate that lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway leads to hyperactivity of DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons, suggesting the implication of the DRN and MRN in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease, and the decreased response of these 5-HT neurons to 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation, reflecting 5-HT(1A) receptor dysfunction in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats.

