Yuen, E. Y., et al. (2008). "Activation of 5-HT2A/C receptors counteracts 5-HT1A regulation of n-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels in pyramidal neurons of prefrontal cortex." J Biol Chem 283(25): 17194-17204.

	Abnormal serotonin-glutamate interaction in prefrontal cortex (PFC) is implicated in the pathophysiology of many mental disorders, including schizophrenia and depression. However, the mechanisms by which this interaction occurs remain unclear. Our previous study has shown that activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors inhibits N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) currents in PFC pyramidal neurons by disrupting microtubule-based transport of NMDARs. Here we found that activation of 5-HT(2A/C) receptors significantly attenuated the effect of 5-HT(1A) on NMDAR currents and microtubule depolymerization. The counteractive effect of 5-HT(2A/C) on 5-HT(1A) regulation of synaptic NMDAR response was also observed in PFC pyramidal neurons from intact animals treated with various 5-HT-related drugs. Moreover, 5-HT(2A/C) stimulation triggered the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in dendritic processes. Inhibition of the beta-arrestin/Src/dynamin signaling blocked 5-HT(2A/C) activation of ERK and the counteractive effect of 5-HT(2A/C) on 5-HT(1A) regulation of NMDAR currents. Immunocytochemical studies showed that 5-HT(2A/C) treatment blocked the inhibitory effect of 5-HT(1A) on surface NR2B clusters on dendrites, which was prevented by cellular knockdown of beta-arrestins. Taken together, our study suggests that serotonin, via 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A/C) receptor activation, regulates NMDAR functions in PFC neurons in a counteractive manner. 5-HT(2A/C), by activating ERK via the beta-arrestin-dependent pathway, opposes the 5-HT(1A) disruption of microtubule stability and NMDAR transport. These findings provide a framework for understanding the complex interactions between serotonin and NMDARs in PFC, which could be important for cognitive and emotional control in which both systems are highly involved.

