The, M. R. T. (2004). [Carbonyl-(11)C]N-(2-(1-(4-(2-Methoxyphenyl)-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-pyridinyl)cyclo hexanecarboxamide. Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD). Bethesda (MD), National Center for Biotechnology Information (US).

	[Carbonyl-(11)C]N-(2-(1-(4-(2-Methoxyphenyl)-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-pyridinyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide ([carbonyl-(11)C]WAY 100635) is a radioligand developed for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptors in the central nervous system (1). It is a selective 5-HT1A antagonist radiotracer labeled with (11)C, a positron emitter with a physical t(1/2) of 20.4 min (2). The serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine 5-HT) neurotransmission system consists mainly of neurons in the brainstem, with nerve tracts extending from these neurons to many areas of the brain and spinal cord (3). During firing, the neurons release 5-HT, a neurotransmitter that is involved in the modulation of various important physiological functions and behavior, such as thermoregulation, cardiovascular function, aggressive and sexual behavior, mood, appetite, and the sleep-wake cycle (1). The effects of 5-HT are mediated by as many as seven classes of receptor populations (5-HT1 to 5-HT7), and many of which also contain several subtypes (4). There are five receptor subtypes within the G protein-coupled 5-HT1 receptor family, and the 5-HT1A subtype is primarily located in the limbic forebrain (the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex and septum) (1, 4). It appears to function both as presynaptic (somatodendritic) autoreceptors in the raphe nuclei and as postsynaptic receptors in the terminal fields. This receptor subtype is involved in the modulation of emotion and the function of the hypothalamus, and is implicated in the pathogenesis of anxiety, depression, hallucinogenic behavior, motion sickness, dementia, schizophrenia, and eating disorders (5). A radioligand that can be used to assess the in vivo densities of 5-HT1A receptors and their changes may facilitate investigation of the relationship of these receptors to various neuropsychiatric diseases and aid in the design of novel drugs for their treatment. Many psychiatric drugs modulate serotonergic transmission or specifically target the 5-HT1A receptors (2). Many compounds have been radiolabeled and studied for visualization and quantification of these receptors using PET or single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Selective agonists such as 8-hydroxy-N-N-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) were initially studied, but because they bind to the relatively few 5-HT1A receptors in the high-affinity state, the higher affinity required in that situation was difficult to achieve (6). WAY 100635 has been developed as a highly selective, silent antagonist (possessing no intrinsic agonist activity) of 5HT1A receptors at both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites (7). The initial radiolabel was placed in the O-methoxy position, but studies have shown that this [O-methyl-(11)C] radioligand is metabolized by in vivo amide hydrolysis in primates to a lipophilic radiolabeled amine metabolite that can cross the blood-brain barrier with high affinities for both alpha1-adrenoceptors and 5-HT1A receptors (8, 9). The labeling of WAY 100635 with (11)C in its carbonyl position provides the current [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY 100635 radioligand which avoids the formation of the undesirable radiolabeled metabolite (8, 10).

