Rodriguez, J. J., et al. (2000). "N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the ventral tegmental area: subcellular distribution and colocalization with 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) receptors." J Neurosci Res 60(2): 202-211.

	Glutamate receptors of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype have been implicated in behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants and in psychotic behaviors involving excitation of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopaminergic neurons. Antagonists of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) receptors of the 5-HT(2A) subtype are potent antipsychotics that attenuate these NMDA-evoked responses. We examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of antisera against the NMDA R1 subunit (NMDAR1) and 5-HT(2A) receptors to determine potential sites for their dual activation in the rat paranigral and parabrachial VTA subdivisions that are distinguished, in part, by their respective striatolimbic and cortical projections. In both regions, NMDAR1 immunoreactivity was localized mainly to the cytoplasm of somata and dendrites, and was only occasionally seen near or within excitatory-type asymmetric synapses. Many of the NMDAR1-labeled somata and dendrites also expressed 5-HT(2A) receptors, having a similar, but largely non-overlapping, neuronal distribution. The mean area density of NMDAR1 and dually labeled dendritic profiles was significantly greater in the paranigral than in the parabrachial VTA. NMDAR1 was also present in small axons showing a similar regional difference in area density. No regional difference in area density was seen in dendrites or small axons containing only 5-HT(2A) receptors. Our results indicate that NMDA and 5-HT(2A) receptors in the VTA are transiently expressed on synaptic plasma membranes of single neurons showing widespread cytoplasmic distributions of each of the receptors. They also suggest a major role for NMDA receptors in modulating the output of paranigral neurons and the release of transmitters from axons passing through this region.

