Voronova, I. P., et al. (2016). "5-HT2A receptors control body temperature in mice during LPS-induced inflammation via regulation of NO production." Pharmacological Research 103: 123-131.

	G protein-coupled 5-HT2A receptors are involved in the regulation of numerous normal and pathological physiological functions. At the same time, its involvement in the regulation of body temperature (T-b) in normal conditions is obscure. Here we study the effect of the 5-HT2A receptor activation or blockade on T-b in sick animals. The experiments were carried out on adult C57BL/6 mouse males. Systemic inflammation and sickness were produced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 0.1 mg/kg, ip), while the 5-HT2A receptor was stimulated or blocked through the administration of the receptor agonist DOI or antagonist ketanserin (1 mg/kg), respectively. LPS, DOI or ketanserin alone produced no effect on T-b. However, administration of LPS together with a peripheral or central ketanserin injection reduced T-b (32.2 degrees C). Ketanserin reversed the LPS-induced expression of inducible NO synthase in the brain. Consequently, an involvement of NO in the mechanism of the hypothermic effect of ketanserin in sick mice was hypothesized. Administration of LPS together with NO synthase inhibitor, L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (60 mg/kg, ip) resulted in deep (28.5 degrees C) and prolonged (8 h) hypothermia, while administration of L-nitro-arginine methyl ester alone produced no effect on T-b. Thus, 5-HT2A receptors play a key role in T-b control in sick mice. Blockade of this GPCR produces hypothermia in mice with systemic inflammation via attenuation of LPS-induced NO production. These results indicate an unexpected role of 5-HT2A receptors in inflammation and NO production and have a considerable biological impact on understanding the mechanism of animal adaptation to pathogens and parasites. Moreover, adverse side effects of 5-HT2A receptor antagonists in patients with inflammation may be expected. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

