Ramage, A. G. (2006). "The role of central 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) receptors in the control of micturition." Br J Pharmacol 147: S120-S131.

	At present the most investigated 5-HT receptor that has been shown to play a role in the control of micturition is the 5-HT1A receptor followed by 5-HT7, 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 receptors. Most experiments focus on the control these receptors have on the parasympathetic outflow to the bladder and the somatic outflow to the external urethral sphincter (EUS) in the rat. Furthermore, 5-HT1A and 5-HT7 receptors have been identified as having an excitatory physiological role in the control of bladder function. 5-HT1A receptors act, at least in the rat, at both a spinal (probably a heteroreceptor) and supraspinal (probably an autoreceptor) level, while 5-HT7 receptors only act at a supraspinal level. Additionally, in the rat, 5-HT administered at a spinal or supraspinal site has an excitatory action, although earlier experiments have shown that activating 5-HT-containing brain areas causes inhibition of the bladder. Recent experiments have also indicated that blockade of the 5-HT1A receptor pathway shows rapid tolerance. However, no data exist for the development of tolerance for the 5-HT7 receptor pathway. Neither receptor seems to play a role in the control of the urethra. Regarding 5-HT2 receptors, activation of this receptor subtype inhibits micturition, and this inhibitory action may occur at a spinal, supraspinal or both levels. Although no physiological role for 5-HT2C receptors can yet be identified, 5-HT2C receptors have been implicated in the proposed supraspinal tonically active 5-HT1A autoreceptor (negative feedback) pathway. This proposition reconciles the data that central 5-HT-containing pathways are inhibitory to micturition, while 5-HT1A receptors, although inhibitory to adenylyl cyclase, have an excitatory function. This is because activation of 5-HT1A autoreceptors reduces the release of 5-HT thus reducing the activation of the 5-HT2C receptors, which are inhibitory in the control of micturition (disinhibition). Furthermore, 5-HT2A receptors in the rat and 5-HT2C receptors in the guinea pig cause activation of the EUS. In this respect, 5-ht(5A) receptors have also been identified in Onuf's nucleus, the site of somatic motoneurones controlling this sphincter. In the cat there is very little evidence to indicate that 5-HT receptors are involved in micturition except under pathological conditions in which activation of 5-HT1A receptors causes inhibition of micturition. Interestingly, under such conditions 5-HT1A receptors cause excitation of the EUS. Nevertheless, spinal 5HT(3) receptors have been implicated in the physiological control of micturition in the cat, but not yet in the rat. Overall, the data support the view that 5-HT receptors are important in the control of micturition. However, many more studies are required to fully understand these roles and why there are such species differences.

