Bray, G. A. (2000). "Reciprocal relation of food intake and sympathetic activity: experimental observations and clinical implications." Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord 24 Suppl 2: S8-17.

	The neuropeptides, monoamines and many drugs involved with modulating food intake and fat stores have reciprocal effects on sympathetic activity and thermogenesis. Both serotonin, acting through 5HT1B/2C receptors, and norepinephrine acting through beta2 and/or beta3 receptors reduce food intake and augment sympathetic activity. Neuropeptide Y, beta-endorphin, orexin, galanin and melanin concentrating hormone all increase food intake and, where tested, reduce sympathetic activity. In contrast, a larger number of peptides including cholecystokinin, corticotrophin-releasing hormone/urocortin, enterostatin, leptin, CART and alpha-MSH reduce food intake and increase sympathetic activity. Nicotine, prostaglandin, dexfenfluramine and sibutramine also have this reciprocal effect on feeding and sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity. Chronic administration of neuropeptide Y (NPY) can produce chronically increased food intake and obesity. This syndrome is similar to the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) syndrome and suggests that NPY must be acting as an inhibitory signal to stimulate a feeding system and inhibit sympathetic activity. The melanocortin receptor system may be particularly important in modulating food intake, because a transgenic mouse which does not express melanocortin-4 receptors is massively overweight. Adrenal glucocorticoids are important in obesity since adrenalectomy will reverse or prevent the development of all forms of obesity. The clinical importance of the sympathetic nervous system and food intake is emphasized by the inverse relation of sympathetic activity and body fat. The inhibition of food intake, lower body fat stores and higher energy expenditure in smokers also support this hypothesis. The reciprocal relationship between food intake and sympathetic activity is robust, suggesting that beta receptors in the periphery and brain may be involved in the control of feeding and a reduction in food intake in humans accounts for most of the weight loss with ephedrine and caffeine. We conclude that the inhibition of feeding by activating the SNS is an important satiety system which helps regulate body fat stores.

