Buiter, H. J. C., et al. (2013). "Radiosynthesis and preclinical evaluation of C-11 prucalopride as a potential agonist PET ligand for the 5-HT4 receptor." EJNMMI Res 3: 13.

	Background: Serotonin 5-HT4 receptor (5-HT4-R) agonists are potential therapeutic agents for enterokinetic and cognitive disorders and are marketed for treatment of constipation. The aim of this study was to develop an agonist positron emission tomography (PET) ligand in order to label the active G-protein coupled 5-HT4-R in peripheral and central tissues. For this purpose prucalopride, a high-affinity selective 5-HT4-R agonist, was selected. Methods: [C-11]Prucalopride was synthesized from [C-11] methyl triflate and desmethyl prucalopride, and its LogD(oct,pH7.4) was determined. Three distinct studies were performed with administration of IV [C-11]prucalopride in male rats: (1) The biodistribution of radioactivity was measured ex vivo; (2) the kinetics of radioactivity levels in brain regions and peripheral organs was assessed in vivo under baseline conditions and following pre-treatment with tariquidar, a P-glycoprotein efflux pump inhibitor; and (3) in vivo stability of [C-11] prucalopride was checked ex vivo in plasma and brain extracts using high-performance liquid chromatography. Results: [C-11]Prucalopride was synthesized in optimised conditions with a yield of 21% +/- 4% (decay corrected) and a radiochemical purity (>99%), its LogD(oct, pH7.4) was 0.87. Ex vivo biodistribution studies with [C-11]prucalopride in rats showed very low levels of radioactivity in brain (maximal 0.13% ID.g(-1)) and ten times higher levels in certain peripheral tissues. The PET studies confirmed very low brain levels of radioactivity under baseline conditions; however, it was increased three times after pre-treatment with tariquidar. [C-11] Prucalopride was found to be very rapidly metabolised in rats, with no parent compound detectable in plasma and brain extracts at 5 and 30 min following IV administration. Analysis of levels of radioactivity in peripheral tissues revealed a distinct PET signal in the caecum, which was reduced following tariquidar pre-treatment. The latter is in line with the role of the P-glycoprotein pump in the gut. Conclusion: [C-11]Prucalopride demonstrated low radioactivity levels in rat brain; a combination of reasons may include rapid metabolism in the rat in particular, low passive diffusion and potential P-glycoprotein substrate. In humans, further investigation of [C-11]prucalopride for imaging the active state of 5-HT4-R is worthwhile, in view of the therapeutic applications of 5-HT4 agonists for treatment of gastrointestinal motility disorders.

