Brunken, W. J. and N. W. Daw (1988). "Neuropharmacological analysis of the role of indoleamine-accumulating amacrine cells in the rabbit retina." Vis Neurosci 1(3): 275-285.

	In order to elucidate the role of putative indoleaminergic amacrine cells in visual processing, we have employed pharmacological agents specific for the two classes of serotonin receptor, 5-HT2 and 5-HT1, which have been identified in both the retina and brain. Perfusion of the rabbit retina with 5-HT2 selective antagonists decreases the ON-excitation of all classes of ganglion cell as well as the spontaneous activity of these cells. The effect on OFF-responses depends on the cell type: OFF-excitation of center-surround brisk and sluggish cells is increased or not affected by these drugs, but OFF excitation of ON/OFF direction selective cells is reduced. No disruption of the trigger features of direction selective or orientation selective cells was discovered, suggesting that indoleaminergic amacrine cells do not play a role in the generation of the complex properties of these cells. 5-HT1 receptors are heterogeneous and classified as a, b, or c subtypes. Since no selective antagonists are available for these sites, we have employed specific agonists. The most specific of these are for the 5-HT1A receptor. Perfusion with these agonists had physiological effects similar to those with perfusion of 5-HT2 antagonists. Thus, we have suggested that these two classes of serotonin receptors mediate opponent processes in the neural pathway. Since indoleaminergic cells make reciprocal synaptic connections with rod bipolar cell terminals, which are depolarizing in the rabbit retina, we hypothesize that 5-HT2 receptors facilitate the synaptic transmission from the depolarizing rod bipolar cell thus facilitating ON-excitation in the retinal network while 5-HT1A receptors mediate an inhibitory process. Similar self-opponent processing appears to take place in the hypothalamic and hippocampal serotonergic systems as well as in the dopaminergic retinal system. Thus, it is likely that this organization is a general feature of monoamine signal transmission in the central nervous system.

