Albonetti, E., et al. (1996). "Involvement of the 5-HT1A subtype receptor in the neonatal organization of agonistic behaviour in the rat." Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behavior 54(1): 189-193.

	5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) interacts with testosterone (T) in the development of a number of neuronal systems controlling sexually dimorphic adult behaviours. In this report, we investigated this interaction on the organization of agonistic behaviour in males, females, androgenized females (250 mu g/pup of T proprionate on the day of birth), and males castrated on the day of birth. We have shown previously that manipulating 5-HT2 activity over the 2nd week of life modulates adult agonistic behaviour, depending on genetic sex and the presence of T. In this report, we investigated the effects seen in adulthood of a 5-HT1A agonist [8-OH-DPAT, 0.25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (IP)] and antagonist (WAY100135, 0.25 mg/kg, IP) given over days 8-16 postpartum. The test for agonistic behaviour was carried out in a neutral territory against a matched conspecific, and introductory, offensive and defensive activities were noted. Results show that neonatal administration of the 5-HT1A antagonist WAY100135 increases introductory activity and defense in the presence of neonatal T, independent of genetic sex, because these effects were seen in sham-castrated males and androgenised females. Offence followed a similar pattern, in that it was increased by WAY100135, but only in males. In the case of defence, the effects of the antagonist were reinforced by the action of the agonist (8-OH-DPAT) in both males and females, indicating an inhibitory role of 5-HT1A perinatal activity on defence in the presence of malelike levels of circulating T and a facilitatory role when levels of T are low or negligible. These findings indicate that 5-HT1A activity is involved in the development of agonistic behaviour and the effects are influenced by T. The results also show that the offensive and defensive facets of agonistic activity are controlled differently.

