Wooten, D. W., et al. (2013). "5-HT1A sex based differences in B-max, in vivo K-D, and BPND in the nonhuman primate." Neuroimage 77: 125-132.

	Serotonin (5-HT) dysfunction has been implicated in neuropsychiatric illnesses and may play a pivotal role in the differential prevalence of depression between the sexes. Previous PET studies have revealed sex-based differences in 5-HT1A binding potential (BPND). The binding potential is a function of the radioligand-receptor affinity (1/K-Dapp), and receptor density (B-max). In this work, we use a multiple-injection (MI) PET protocol and the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, [F-18]mefway, to compare sex-based differences of in vivo affinity, B-max, and BPND in rhesus monkeys. Methods: PET [F-18]mefway studies were performed on 17 (6 m, 11f) rhesus monkeys using a 3-injection protocol that included partial saturation injections of mefway. Compaitinental modeling was performed using a model to account for non-tracer doses of mefway for the estimation of K-Dapp and B-max. BPND estimates were also acquired from the first injection (high specific activity [F-18]mefway, 90-minute duration) for comparison using the cerebellum (CB) as a reference region. Regions of interest were selected in 5-HT1A binding regions of the hippocampus (Hp), dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC), amygdala (Am), and raphe nuclei (RN). Results: Female subjects displayed significantly (*p < 0.05) lower K-Dapp in the Hp (-32%), Am (-38%), and RN (-37%). Only the Hp displayed significant differences in B-max with females having a B-max of -29% compared to males. Male subjects demonstrated significantly lower BPND measurements in the Am (14%) and RN (29%). Conclusion: These results suggest that the higher BPND values found in females are the result of lower [F-18] mefway K-Dapp. Although a more experimentally complex measurement, separate assay of K-Dapp and B-max provides a more sensitive measure than BPND to identify the underlying differences between females and males in 5-HT1A function. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

