Tajuddin, N. F. and M. J. Druse (1993). "TREATMENT OF PREGNANT ALCOHOL-CONSUMING RATS WITH BUSPIRONE - EFFECTS ON SEROTONIN AND 5-HYDROXYINDOLEACETIC ACID CONTENT IN OFFSPRING." Alcoholism-Clinical and Experimental Research 17(1): 110-114.

	This laboratory previously demonstrated that in utero ethanol exposure markedly impairs the development of the serotonergic system in rat brain. Developmental abnormalities could be detected as early as G15 in the brainstem and G19 in the cortex. Because of the importance of fetal serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT1A receptors for the normal development of 5-HT containing neurons, we initiated studies to determine whether administration of a 5-HT1A agonist, buspirone, to pregnant rats could overcome the adverse effects of in utero ethanol exposure on the developing serotonergic system in off-spring. Female, Sprague-Dawley rats were given daily subcutaneous injections of buspirone (4.5 mg/kg) from gestational day 13 (G13) to G20. 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) content were determined in the cortex and cortical regions. These experiments demonstrated that the ethanol-associated abnormalities in the development of the serotonergic system can be partially overcome by in utero exposure to buspirone. Specifically, whereas untreated ethanol rats had a deficiency of 5-HT and/or 5-HIAA in whole cortex on PN5, and in the motor cortex on PN19 and 35, no significant differences were detected in these regions of the age-matched offspring of buspirone-treated, ethanol-fed rats. In contrast, the 5-HT and 5-HIAA deficiency in the somatosensory cortex of 19-day-old offspring of ethanol-fed rats was not corrected by in utero buspirone treatment. These results suggest that the abnormal development of cortical projections of serotonergic neurons may be due in part to the low fetal 5-HT content in ethanol-exposed rats and may potentially be overcome by in utero treatment with a 5-HT1A agonist. However, additional studies are needed to elucidate the importance of dose and timing of buspirone administration, and the effects of in utero buspirone exposure on other components of serotonergic and non-serotonergic neurons.

