Yamazaki, M., et al. (2018). "Functional mechanism of ASP5736, a selective serotonin 5-HT5A receptor antagonist with potential utility for the treatment of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia." European Neuropsychopharmacology 28(5): 620-629.

	The 5-HT5A receptor is arguably the least understood 5-HT receptor. Despite widespread expression in human and rodent brains it lacks specific ligands. Our previous results suggest that 5-HT5A receptor antagonists may be effective against cognitive impairment in schizophrenia. In this study, using behavioral, immunohistochemical, electrophysiological and microdialysis techniques, we examined the mechanism by which ASP5736, a novel and selective 5-HT5A receptor antagonist, exerts a positive effect in animal models of cognitive impairment. We first confirmed the effect of ASP5736 on cognitive deficits in rats treated subchronically with phencyclidine hydrochloride (PCP) using an attentional set shifting task. Subsequently, we identified 5-HT5A receptors in dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons and parvalbumin (PV)-positive interneurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and in PV-positive interneurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Burst firing of the DAergic cells in the parabrachial pigmental nucleus (PBP) in the VTA, which predominantly project to the mPFC, was significantly enhanced by treatment with ASP5736. In contrast, ASP5736 exerted no significant effect on either the firing rate or burst firing in the DA cells in the paranigral nucleus (PN), that project to the nucleus accumbens (N. Acc.). ASP5736 increased the release of DA and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the mPFC of subchronically PCP-treated rats. These results support our hypothesis that ASP5736 might block the inhibitory 5-HT5A receptors on DAergic neurons in the VTA that project to the mPFC, and interneurons in the mPFC, and thereby improve cognitive impairment by preferentially enhancing DAergic and GABAergic neurons in the mPFC. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/hcenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

