Shirasaka, T., et al. (2011). "[Promising therapy of neural stem cell transplantation for FASD model--neural network reconstruction and behavior recovery]." Nihon Arukoru Yakubutsu Igakkai Zasshi 46(6): 576-584.

	OBJECTIVES: It has been elucidated that psychiatric disorders are associated with impairment of the brain neural network. Reduction in brain size and hypoplasia of the basal ganglia and corpus callosum have been reported in Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD). It is believed that the formation of the neural network is influenced by alcohol exposure during the fetal period. Additionally, it is well known that the functional expression of CNS consequences of prenatal alcohol exposure includes cognitive and attentional processes, as well as social behavioral problems. It has also been reported that abnormal 5-HT neuron development can be reversed by treatment with a 5-HT1A agonist in a prenatal alcohol exposure model. However, these treatments are prophylactic. Without early intervention, the consequences of FASD are permanent. Recently, emerging evidence suggest that many clinical symptoms observed in psychiatric disease are likely related to neural network disruptions including neurogenesis dysfunction. Neural stem cell (NSC) transplantation has been investigated in areas such as brain injury, stroke and neurodegenerative diseases and may be a way to reverse neurogenesis dysfunction. In the present work, we evaluated the usefulness of intravenous transplantation of NSCs in the FASD model rat focusing on the possibility of regenerative therapy, particularly regarding behavioral abnormalities, for FASD rats. RESULTS: Abnormal behaviors FASD model rats suggest that reduced social activity , and cognitive dysfunction are major symptoms in FASD patients. Intravenous NSC transplantation appeared to partially correct these behavioral abnormalities in FASD model rats. In the Amygdala areas intravenous NSC transplantation appears to have partially regaenerates expression of PSD95 in FASD model rats. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that intravenous NSC transplantation may be an advanced approach to recover neural network damage and CNS dysfunction in FASD and possibly other psychiatric disorders.

