Cornea-Hebert, V., et al. (2002). "Similar ultrastructural distribution of the 5-HT(2A) serotonin receptor and microtubule-associated protein MAP1A in cortical dendrites of adult rat." Neuroscience 113(1): 23-35.

	As visualized by light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, the distribution of the neuronal serotonin-2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor is mainly intracellular throughout adult rat brain. This localization is particularly striking in the pyramidal cells of cerebral cortex, the dendrites of which are intensely immunoreactive, but without any labeling of their spines. In view of recent yeast two-hybrid and biochemical results suggesting an association of 5-HT(2A) receptors with the cytoskeletal microtubule-associated protein MAP1A, the respective subcellular distributions of the receptors and of MAP1A were compared by quantitative electron microscopic immunocytochemistry in dendrites of adult rat frontoparietal cortex. Counts of silver-intensified immunogold particles revealed a higher density of 5-HT(2A) receptors in smaller rather than larger dendrites, and an apportionment between pre-defined compartments representing the plasma membrane and the cytoplasm that was proportional to the relative surface area of these compartments. MAP1A immunoreactivity also predominated in smaller versus larger dendrites, but with a slightly lower proportion of labeling in the plasma membrane versus cytoplasmic compartment. The co-localization of 5-HT(2A) receptors and MAP1A protein in the same dendrites could be demonstrated in double immunolabeling experiments. These results confirmed the predominantly somato-dendritic, intracellular localization of 5-HT(2A) receptors in cerebral cortex, showed their higher concentration in distal as opposed to proximal dendrites, and suggested their potential association to the cytoskeleton in cortical neurons in vivo. Such a distribution of 5-HT(2A) receptors reinforces our earlier hypothesis that 5-HT(2A) receptors participate in intraneuronal signaling processes involving the cytoskeleton, and raises the possibility that their activation could be dependent upon that of another co-localized, plasma membrane-bound, 5-HT receptor.

