de Jong, T. R. and I. D. Neumann (2015). "Moderate role of oxytocin in the pro-ejaculatory effect of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT." J Sex Med 12(1): 17-28.

	INTRODUCTION: The neurobiological control of ejaculation is not completely understood. Both serotonin (5-HT) and oxytocin (OXT) play a role in the control of male sexual parameters, putatively via overlapping neuronal networks. AIM: The aim of this study was to determine whether activation of 5-HT1A receptors (5-HT1A Rs) reduces the ejaculatory threshold via the direct activation of (OXT) neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN). METHODS: In experiment 1, male rats received acute bilateral infusions of the selective 5-HT1A R antagonist WAY-100635 (1 and 10 mug) or vehicle into the PVN, followed by acute subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of the potent 5-HT1 A R agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.4 mg/kg) or saline. In experiment 2, male rats received acute bilateral infusions of 8-OH-DPAT (1 and 10 mug) or vehicle into the PVN. In experiment 3, male rats received acute intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of a selective OXT receptor antagonist (OXTR-A, 75 and 750 ng) followed by acute s.c. injection of 8-OH-DPAT (0.4 mg/kg) or saline. The effects of these drug treatments on sexual behavior were measured. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Copulation latency, ejaculation latency, mount and intromission frequency, and ejaculation frequency of sexually experienced adult male Wistar rats during 30-minute sexual behavior tests with a receptive female were the main outcome measures. RESULTS: Male sexual behavior was not affected by intra-PVN infusion of WAY-100635 or 8-OH-DPAT, or by i.c.v. infusion of OXTR-A alone. However, the facilitation of ejaculation (reduced mount and intromission frequency and ejaculation latency) induced by systemic 8-OH-DPAT could be attenuated by either intra-PVN infusion of WAY-100635 or by i.c.v. infusion of OXTR-A. CONCLUSIONS: Activation of OXT neurons plays a moderate role in the pro-ejaculatory effects of systemic 8-OH-DPAT, but extracellular 5-HT levels may influence the strength of the effects.

