Deckel, A. W. and L. Fuqua (1998). "Effects of serotonergic drugs on lateralized aggression and aggressive displays in Anolis carolinensis." Behav Brain Res 95(2): 227-232.

	Previous work demonstrated that the brains of many reptiles, including the American chameleon Anolis carolinensis (A. carolinensis), are functionally 'split'. Because the left eye in this species projects predominantly to the right hemisphere, and vice versa, inferences about lateralized brain functioning can be made in A. carolinensis by observation of eye use during behavioral encounters. Using this model, past work suggested that territorial aggression in Anolis is under the preferential control of the right hemisphere, and that acute stress or chronic alcohol exposure selectively reduces right hemisphere mediated territorial aggression. In addition, drugs which increase serotonin (5-HT) in the synaptic cleft inhibit aggressive responding in anoles in both hemispheres. The current experiment examined whether or not the administration of the serotonin agonists 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamine) tetralin (8-OHDPAT), quipazine, or meta-chlorophenylbiguanide (mCPBG) alter territorial aggression in Anolis. Nine adult socially isolated male A. carolinensis underwent a series of behavioral trials during which an antagonistic male was introduced into the cage. Once stable responding was initiated, all subjects were injected in a semi-randomized crossover manner with the following agents, (1) lactated Ringer's, (2) the 5-HT2 agonist quipazine (1.5 mg/kg and 3.0 mg/kg), (3) the 5-HT1 agonist 8-OHDPAT (83 mg/kg), and (4) the 5-HT3 agonist mCPBG (3.0 mg/kg and 9 mg/kg). Twenty minutes post injections, the male intruder was reintroduced into the subject's cage. Several behaviors were recorded, including: (1) the time to the first aggressive response, (2) the number of aggressive episodes mediated by the left eye or right eye, and (3) changes in skin color and posture. Aggressive responding was virtually eliminated in all subjects injected with 8-OHDPAT. On the other hand, one-way ANOVA found that both the 9 mg/kg dose of mCPBG (P=0.007), and the 3.0 mg/kg dose of quipazine (P=0.035), selectively decreased territorial aggression mediated by the left eye/right hemisphere compared to lactated Ringer's controls, but had no effect on aggression mediated by the right eye/left hemisphere. Although 8-OHDPAT inhibited aggression, injected subjects developed phenotypic displays of aggressive coloring/posturing, such as blackening of the eye spot and a raising of the neck crest. These results suggest that aggressive action can be differentiated from phenotypic displays that accompany aggression by a 5-HT1 agonist. They also indicate that there is an asymmetrical effect of 5-HT2/5-HT3 serotonin agonists on hemispheric mediation of aggression in this species.

