Doherty, M. D. and V. M. Pickel (2001). "Targeting of serotonin 1A receptors to dopaminergic neurons within the parabrachial subdivision of the ventral tegmental area in rat brain." J Comp Neurol 433(3): 390-400.

	Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) modulates dopamine-related cognitive functions and motor activity through activation of selective receptor subtypes including 5-HT1A. Potential targets for these 5-HT1A-mediated actions of 5-HT include mesocortical and mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons having partially segregated distribution in the parabrachial and paranigral subdivisions of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), respectively. We therefore examined the ultrastructural immunocytochemical localization of the 5-HT1A receptor in the parabrachial (VTApb) and paranigral (VTApn) subdivisions of rat VTA, to determine 1) the functional sites for receptor activation, and 2) the cellular associations between this receptor and dopaminergic neurons identified by their tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) content. In each region, 5-HT1A immunoreactivity was mainly observed in somatodendritic profiles, but it was also present in small unmyelinated axons and in a few axon terminals and glia, suggesting a role for 5-HT1A receptors in presynaptic and glial functions, as well as postsynaptic neuronal activation, in VTA. In somatodendritic profiles, 5-HT1A gold particles were mainly localized to tubulovesicles presumed to be smooth endoplasmic reticulum. In addition, however, in distal dendrites receiving multiple inputs the receptor was targeted to selective postsynaptic junctions, or more randomly distributed on nonsynaptic portions of the plasma membrane. Of the 5-HT1A-labeled dendrites, 64% in VTApb and 44% in VTApn contained TH. These findings suggest a reserve of cytoplasmic 5-HT1A receptors that are mobilized to functional postsynaptic sites on the plasma membrane by afferent input to distal dendrites in the VTA. They also indicate that 5-HT1A activation may affect a larger population of dopaminergic neurons in VTApb compared with VTApn, thus having a potentially greater impact on cognitive functions modulated by mesocortical dopaminergic neurons.

