Dias, B. G. and D. Crews (2008). "Regulation of pseudosexual behavior in the parthenogenetic whiptail lizard, Cnemidophorus uniparens." Endocrinology 149(9): 4622-4631.

	Neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying complementary behaviors like male-typical mounting and female-typical receptivity are most often studied independently in males and females, respectively. Cnemidophorus uniparens is a unisexual lizard species consisting only of females that alternately express male- and female-like pseudosexual behavior across the ovarian cycle. Intact, postovulatory (PostOv), and ovariectomized (OVX), androgen-implanted animals [OVX plus testosterone (T)] exhibit male-like mounting, but not receptivity, whereas intact, preovulatory (PreOv), and OVX lizards injected with estradiol [OVX plus estrogen (E)] express receptivity, but not mounting. We tested whether the serotonergic system in the preoptic area (POA) and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) gates the reciprocal inhibition characterizing this alternating expression of mounting and receptivity. Serotonergic signaling at the POA appears to be key to gating male-like behavior. Postovulatory and OVX plus T animals have lower intracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels, and greater abundance of inhibitory 5-HT1A receptor mRNA in the POA compared with both PreOv and OVX plus E lizards. Moreover, injecting 5-HT into the POA of OVX plus T animals suppresses mounting, whereas injection into VMN of OVX plus E lizards suppresses receptivity. Although 5-HT levels in the VMN do not differ across the ovarian cycle or between hormonally manipulated animals, PreOv and OVX plus E lizards have a lower abundance of 5-HT2A mRNA in the VMN. Stimulating 5-HT1A receptors using systemic drug administration inhibits mounting, whereas activating 5-HT2A receptors facilitates receptivity. This study illuminates how male- and female-typical sexual behaviors share common neural circuits, and that 5-HT regulates these naturally complementary, and mutually exclusive, behaviors.

