Custodio, R. J. P., et al. "25B-NBOMe, a novel N-2-methoxybenzyl-phenethylamine (NBOMe) derivative, may induce rewarding and reinforcing effects via a dopaminergic mechanism: Evidence of abuse potential." Addiction Biology.

	An increasing number of N-2-methoxybenzyl-phenethylamine (NBOMe) derivatives are being misused worldwide, including the potent hallucinogen 2-(4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)ethanamine (25B-NBOMe). However, the number of studies characterizing the abuse potential and psychopharmacological properties of 25B-NBOMe is limited; thus, we examined its rewarding and reinforcing effects using conditioned place preference (CPP) and self-administration (SA) tests. Pretreatment with SCH23390 (SCH), Haloperidol (HAL), and ketanserin (KS), antagonists of dopamine D1 (DRD1), dopamine D2 (DRD2), and serotonin 2A (5-HT2A receptor) receptors, respectively, was utilized during a CPP test to investigate the involvement of the dopaminergic and serotonergic systems in 25B-NBOMe-mediated effects. We also examined the effects of 25B-NBOMe on the expression of dopamine-related proteins in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA). Then, we measured the dopamine level, phosphorylated CREB (p-CREB), deltaFosB (Delta FosB), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the NAcc. In addition, we explored the involvement of 5-HT2A receptors in the 25B-NBOMe-induced head twitch response (HTR). We also examined the effects of 25B-NBOMe on brain wave activity using electroencephalography. 25B-NBOMe elicited CPP and SA. SCH and HAL blocked 25B-NBOMe-induced CPP, whereas KS did not. Moreover, 25B-NBOMe altered the DRD1, DRD2, and dopamine transporter expression and increased dopamine levels. It also induced changes in p-CREB, Delta FosB, and BDNF expression. 25B-NBOMe induced HTR and increased 5-HT2A receptor mRNA levels, effects inhibited by KS. Furthermore, 25B-NBOMe altered delta and gamma wave activity, which was normalized by SCH and HAL. These findings show that 25B-NBOMe may induce rewarding and reinforcing effects via a dopaminergic mechanism, suggesting its abuse potential.

