Clement, M. E. and R. B. McCall (1989). "Characterization of midline medulla role in the trigeminal depressor response." Am J Physiol 256(5 Pt 2): R1111-1120.

	The purpose of the present investigation was to determine the role of the midline medulla in mediating the trigeminal depressor response. Previously we found that lesions of the midline medulla abolished the decrease in blood pressure resulting from electrical stimulation of the spinal trigeminal complex. Electrical stimulation (5 Hz) of the spinal trigeminal tract elicited a decrease in arterial blood pressure that was associated with an inhibition of sympathetic nerve activity recorded from the inferior cardiac nerve of anesthetized cats. The effect of single shocks applied to the trigeminal complex on sympathetic activity was determined using computer-averaging techniques. Single shock stimulation consistently elicited an excitation of sympathetic activity that was followed by an inhibition of sympathetic nerve discharge. The gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist picrotoxin blocked the depressor response elicited by electrical stimulation of the midline medulla but not by stimulation of the spinal trigeminal complex. Extracellular recordings of the discharges of midline medullary neurons were made to determine the effects of trigeminal stimulation on sympathoinhibitory, sympathoexcitatory, and serotonin neurons. Sympathoinhibitory and sympathoexcitatory neurons were identified by the relationship between unitary discharges and sympathetic nerve activity and by their response to baroreceptor reflex activation. Serotonin (5-HT) neurons were identified using criteria previously developed in our laboratory. These included 1) a slow regular discharge rate, 2) sensitivity to the inhibitory action of the 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin, 3) failure to respond to baroreceptor reflex activation, and 4) the discharges of the 5-HT neurons were not related to sympathetic activity. Stimulation of the spinal trigeminal complex typically inhibited the discharges of sympathoinhibitory neurons. In contrast, stimulation of the trigeminal complex consistently excited both sympathoexcitatory and 5-HT neurons. These results are discussed in relationship to the role of the midline medulla in mediating the trigeminal depressor response.

