Deakin, B. (2001). Dose optimisation in antidepressant drug development. Optimal Dose Identification: Excerta Medica. A. Brekenridge. Amsterdam, Elsevier Science Bv. 1220: 223-245.

	There are four main obstacles in achieving optimal drug doses in the development of antidepressant drugs. The First is the large placebo response. This is known to be proportional to the initial severity of the illness such that subjects with less severe depressive illnesses show the greatest placebo response. Up to 40% of depressed patients with mid illnesses will spontaneously remit over 4 weeks of placebo therapy. Treatment with an effective antidepressant produces rates of 60-70% in this population. Thus, improvement directly attributable to a pharmacological action of the drug occurs in only 20-30% of treated patients. The second difficulty is that depression is probably heterogeneous in its response to antidepressant drugs. There is reasonable evidence that depression with psychosis is poorly responsible at least to existing antidepressant drug therapies but specifically responsive to electroconvulsive therapy. Patients with bipolar affective disorder may switch into mania when treated with antidepressant drugs and some bipolar patients develop chronic depression which is very resistant to drug therapy. The third difficulty, which is not unique to antidepressant drugs, is that 4 weeks of therapy is probably insufflicient to observe maximal response and improvement in depression may continue for 6-8 weeks. Improvement in other disorders such as obsessional compulsive disorder may continue well beyond 8 weeks. The fourth difficulty is that the pharmacological mechanism of action of antidepressants has some uncertainty and so it is difficult to develop in vivo surrogate markers. Modern imaging techniques offer a way forward. For example, new drugs can be investigated for their ability to displace radioligand binding to the receptor identified with antidepressant response. Positron emission tomography radioligands are being developed for monoamine reuptake sites and this could be used to optimise drug dosage with new monoamine uptake blocking antidepressants. There is a strong thrust of evidence which implicates post-synaptic 5HT1A receptor in mediating the antidepressant effects of drugs and these can already be visualised in using the radioligand WAY100635. The ability of antidepressant drugs to increase 5HT release could be detected by a displacement of WAY100635 by increased endogenous release of 5HT. Pharmaco magnetic resonance imaging is an emerging technology for dose optimisation of CNS drugs. The direct effect on neuronal metabolism in different regions of the brain can be monitored by following the local changes in blood flow. However, the technique is not yet quantitative. Another approach is to evoke regional neuronal activation using psychological tasks which engage different brain circuits or by the experimental induction of low mood itself. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

