El Mansari, M., et al. (2014). "Restoration of serotonin neuronal firing following long-term administration of bupropion but not paroxetine in olfactory bulbectomized rats." Int J Neuropsychopharmacol 18(4).

	BACKGROUND: Olfactory bulbectomized rats generally manifest many of the neurochemical, physiological, and behavioral features of major depressive disorder in humans. Another interesting feature of this model is that it responds to chronic but not acute antidepressant treatments, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The purpose of the present study was first to characterize the firing activity of dorsal raphe serotonin neurons in olfactory bulbectomized rats and then examine the effects of 2 antidepressants, bupropion and paroxetine. METHODS: Olfactory bulbectomy was performed by aspirating olfactory bulbs in anesthetized rats. Vehicle and drugs were delivered for 2 and 14 days via subcutaneously implanted minipumps. In vivo electrophysiological recordings were carried out in male anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. RESULTS: Following ablation of olfactory bulbs, the firing rate of serotonin neurons was decreased by 36%, leaving those of norepinephrine and dopamine neurons unchanged. In olfactory bulbectomized rats, bupropion (30 mg/kg/d) restored the firing rate of serotonin neurons to the control level following 2- and 14-day administration and also induced an increase in the tonic activation of serotonin(1A) receptors; paroxetine (10 mg/kg/d) did not result in a return to normal of the attenuated firing of serotonin neurons in olfactory bulbectomized rats. In the hippocampus, although at a higher dose of WAY 100635 than that required in bupropion-treated animals, paroxetine administration also resulted in an increase in the tonic activation of serotonin(1A) receptors. CONCLUSIONS: The present results indicate that unlike paroxetine, bupropion administration normalized serotonin neuronal activity and increased tonic activation of the serotonin(1A) receptors in hippocampus.

