De Luca-Vinhas, M. C. Z., et al. (2006). "Pharmacological assessment of the freezing, antinociception, and exploratory behavior organized in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray." Pain 121(1-2): 94-104.

	Opioid and serotonergic mechanisms of the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (APAG) are recruited by conditioned freezing and antinociception. However, it is unclear whether freezing and antinociception induced by stimulation of the APAG are interrelated. To address this issue we looked at the effects of the opioid antagonist naltrexone, the 5-HT2 antagonist ketanserin, and the benzodiazepine agonist midazolam injected into the v1PAG on the freezing and antinociception induced by electrical stimulation of this region. This antinociception was evaluated by the tail-flick and formalin tests. To further characterize the involvement of the v1PAG in unconditioned fear, the effects of intra-v1PAG injections of midazolam on the exploratory behavior were also assessed in independent groups of rats submitted to the elevated plus-maze test (EPM). The data obtained showed that: (i) electrical stimulation of the v1PAG causes freezing blocked by midazolam but not by naltrexone and ketanserin; (ii) antinociception generated at the level of the v1PAG is inhibited by naltrexone, ketanserin, and midazolam; (iii) activation of benzodiazepine-mediated mechanisms in the APAG increased the exploratory behavior of rats in the closed arms but not the avoidance behavior of open arms of the EPM. Thus, freezing and antinociception generated in the v1PAG are dissociated pharmacologically. Whereas antinociception is a multimediated process sensitive to naltrexone, ketanserin, and midazolam, the freezing induced by APAG stimulation was reversed only by the benzodiazepine compound. As injections of midazolam into the APAG do not cause anxiolytic effects in the EPM, the aversive stimuli inherent of this test seem to bypass the v1PAG. (c) 2005 International Association for the Study of Pain. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

