El Mansari, M., et al. (2015). "Effects of acute and sustained administration of vortioxetine on the serotonin system in the hippocampus: electrophysiological studies in the rat brain." Psychopharmacology 232(13): 2343-2352.

	Rationale Vortioxetine is a novel multimodal antidepressant that is a 5-HT1B receptor partial agonist, a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, an inhibitor of the serotonin (5-HT) transporter, and a 5-HT1D, 5-HT3, and 5-HT7 receptor antagonist in vitro. In vivo studies have shown that vortioxetine enhances levels of 5-HT and desensitizes 5-HT1A autoreceptors. Objectives The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of acute and long-term administration of vortioxetine on the terminal 5-HT1B receptor and the tonic activation of 5-HT1A receptor in the rat hippocampus. Methods These receptors were assessed following vortioxetine administration acutely or subcutaneously using minipumps for 14 days. These studies were carried out using in vivo electrophysiological recording, microiontophoresis, and stimulation of the ascending 5-HT fibers. Results Vortioxetine enhanced the inhibitory effect of the stimulation of the 5-HT bundle at a high, but not low frequency and reversed the inhibitory effect of the 5-HT1B receptor agonist CP 94253. These results indicate that this compound acted as a 5-HT1B receptor partial agonist. Vortioxetine inhibited 5-HT reuptake but did not dampen the sensitivity of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors on pyramidal neurons. Long-term administration of vortioxetine and escitalopram (both at 5 mg/kg/day) induced an increase of tonic activation of the 5-HT1A receptors in CA3 pyramidal neurons, resulting in an increase in 5-HT transmission. In addition, vortioxetine decreased the function of terminal 5-HT1B autoreceptor following its sustained administration. Conclusions Desensitization of 5-HT1B autoreceptor and an increase of tonic activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the hippocampus may contribute to the antidepressant effect of vortioxetine.

