ElMansari, M. and P. Blier (1996). "Functional characterization of 5-HT1D autoreceptors on the modulation of 5-HT release in guinea-pig mesencephalic raphe, hippocampus and frontal cortex." British Journal of Pharmacology 118(3): 681-689.

	1 The aims of the present study were (i) to characterize further the pharmacology of 5-HT1D autoreceptors modulating 5-HT release in guinea-pig mesencephalic raphe, hippocampus and frontal cortex; (ii) to determine whether 5-HT1D receptors in the mesencephalic raphe are located on 5-HT neurones; (iii) to determine whether 5-HT1D autoreceptors are coupled to G proteins; and (iv) to assess their sensitivity following long-term 5-HT reuptake blockade and inhibition of type-A monoamine oxidase. 2 In mesencephalic raphe, hippocampus and frontal cortex slices, the 5-HT1D/1B receptor agonist, sumatriptan and the 5-HT1 receptor agonist, 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MeOT) but not the 5-HT1B receptor agonist, CP93129, inhibited electrically the evoked release of [H-3]-5-HT in a concentration-dependent manner. This effect was antagonized by the 5-HT1D/1B receptor antagonist GR127935 in the three structures, but not by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, (+)-WAY100635 in mesencephalic raphe slices. These results confirm the presence of functional 5-HT1D autoreceptors controlling 5-HT release within the mesencephalic raphe as well as in terminal regions. 3 The inhibitory effect of sumatriptan on K+-evoked release of [H-3]-5-HT was not reduced by the addition of the Na+ channel blocker, tetrodotoxin to the superfusion medium, suggesting that these 5-HT1D receptors in the mesencephalic raphe are located on 5-HT neurones and may be considered autoreceptors. 4 The in vitro treatment with the alkylating agent N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) was used to determine whether these 5-HT1D autoreceptors are coupled to G proteins. The inhibitory effect of sumatriptan on electrically evoked release of [H-3]-5-HT was attenuated in NEM-pretreated slices from mesencephalic raphe, hippocampus and frontal cortex, indicating that the 5-HT1D, autoreceptors activated by sumatriptan are coupled to G proteins in these three structures. Taken together with our previous results, this suggests that, in addition to the 5-HT1D autoreceptor activated by sumatriptan, another subtype of 5-HT autoreceptor is activated by 5-MeOT in the hippocampus. 5 Following a 3-week treatment with the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor, paroxetine (10 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) and a 48 h washout period, the electrically evoked release of [H-3]-5-HT was enhanced in mesencephalic raphe, hippocampus and frontal cortex slices. There was an attenuation of the capacity of sumatriptan to inhibit the evoked release of [H-3]-5-HT from mesencephalic raphe slices but not from frontal cortex and hippocampus slices. Only in the latter structure was the suppressant effect of 5-MeOT attenuated. After a 3-week treatment with the reversible type-A monoamine oxidase inhibitor, befloxatone (0.75 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) and 48 h washout period, the effectiveness of sumatriptan and 5-MeOT on the evoked release of [H-3]-5-HT was unaltered in the same brain structures. 6 The enhancement of [H-3]-5-HT release by long-term paroxetine treatment is possibly due to a desensitization of 5-HT1D autoreceptors activated by sumatriptan in mesencephalic raphe and by terminal 5-HT autoreceptors activated by 5-MeOT in hippocampus. In the case of the frontal cortex, it appears that 5-MeOT and sumatriptan may act on the same 5-HT1D autoreceptor which is not desensitized either after paroxetine or befloxatone treatment, as previously reported.

