Egashira, N., et al. (2008). "Aripiprazole inhibits marble-burying behavior via 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) receptor-independent mechanisms." European Journal of Pharmacology 592(1-3): 103-108.

	Aripiprazole is a first next-generation atypical antipsychotic drug with dopamine system stabilizing, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) 5-HT1A receptor partial agonistic, and 5-HT2A receptor antagonistic properties. In the present study, we examined the effect of aripiprazole on marble-burying behavior, which has been considered an animal model of obsessive-compulsive disorder, and compared this with the effects of other atypical antipsychotics such as olanzapine and quetiapine. Aripiprazole (1 mg/kg, i.p.) inhibited marble-burying behavior without affecting the locomotor activity in mice. Conversely, olanzapine (3 mg/kg, i.p.) and quetiapine (100 mg/kg, p.o.) showed significant suppression of locomotor activity and impairment of motor coordination at the dose that inhibited marble-burying behavior. On the other hand, a selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexane (WAY100635, 3 mg/kg, i.p.) markedly antagonized the inhibition of marble-burying behavior by 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin(8-OH-DPAT,3 mg/kg, i.p.),a selective 5-HT1A/7 receptor agonist. By contrast WAY100635 at the same dose had no effect on the inhibition of marble-burying behavior by aripiprazole (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Quinpirole, a dopamine D-2 receptor agonist. showed significant suppression of locomotor activity at the dose that inhibited marble-burying behavior. Conversely, L-741,626, a selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonise at a dose of 10 mg/kg inhibited marble-burying behavior without affecting the locomotor activity. On the other hand, ketanserin, a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, had no effect on the marble-burying behavior. These findings suggest that aripiprazole may be a useful drug for the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder, and that aripiprazole inhibits the marble-burying behavior via 5-HT1A receptor-independent mechanisms. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

