Coscina, D. V. and E. C. de Rooy (1992). "Effects of intracisternal vs. intrahypothalamic 5,7-DHT on feeding elicited by hypothalamic infusion of NE." Brain Res 597(2): 310-320.

	A variety of evidence has led to suggestions that brain serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) interact within the medial hypothalamus to control food intake. To test the possibility that chronic decrements in 5-HT might enhance NE-induced feeding, adult male rats were prepared with permanently indwelling cannulae aimed at the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), then received either intracisternal (IC) or PVN injections of the 5-HT neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) vs. its vehicle, 1% ascorbic acid. Over a 4-week period, IC-5,7-DHT rats showed no signs of enhanced daily feeding or drinking. However, in 40-min intake tests, feeding but not drinking was enhanced by injecting 20 nmol NE into the PVN commencing 2 weeks after neurotoxin treatment. Terminal monoamine assays confirmed that IC-5,7-DHT produced large (80-90%) depletions of brain regional 5-HT. A functional index of 5-HT terminal damage was also implied by the impaired short-term feeding responses IC-5,7-DHT rats showed to the systemic administration of the 5-HT1A agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) when tested between 3 and 4 weeks after IC treatment. Over a comparable 4-week period, PVN-5,7-DHT rats also showed no tendencies to overeat or overdrink on a daily basis. However, in contrast to IC-5,7-DHT rats, they also showed no differences in their feeding or drinking responses to NE injections into the PVN. This was so despite reliable depletions of 5-HT in the hypothalamus (-28%) and hippocampus (-71%). These results support earlier work showing that neither widespread nor localized hypothalamic damage to brain 5-HT neurons produce chronic overeating. However, the data suggest that phasic enhancements of PVN NE activity may trigger enhanced feeding when there is widespread damage to brain 5-HT neurons, although the PVN does not appear to be the brain site mediating this effect.

