Ananth, M. R., et al. (2018). "Decreased Pretreatment Amygdalae Serotonin Transporter Binding in Unipolar Depression Remitters: A Prospective PET Study." J Nucl Med 59(4): 665-670.

	Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating condition that affects over 14 million Americans. Remission occurs only in a minority of individuals after first-line antidepressant treatment (∼35%); predictors of treatment outcome are therefore needed. Using PET imaging with a radiotracer specific for the serotonin transporter (5-HTT), (11)C-McN5652, we found that patients with MDD who did not achieve remission after 12 mo of naturalistic treatment had lower pretreatment midbrain and amygdala binding than healthy volunteers. Here, using a superior 5-HTT tracer, (11)C-DASB, we repeated this study with a prospective design with 8 wk of standardized treatment with escitalopram. As this same cohort also underwent (11)C-WAY100635 scans (serotonin-1A receptor [5-HT(1A)]), we examined whether using both pretreatment 5-HTT and 5-HT(1A) binding could improve prediction of posttreatment remission status. Methods: Thirty-one healthy controls (Hamilton Depression Rating Scale-24 item [HDRS-24] = 1.7) and 26 medication-free patients with MDD (HDRS-24 = 24.8) underwent PET scanning using (11)C-DASB. MDD subjects then received 8 wk of standardized pharmacotherapy with escitalopram. The relationship between pretreatment binding and posttreatment clinical status was examined. Arterial blood samples were collected to calculate the metabolite-corrected arterial input function. The outcome measure was V(T)/f(P) (V(T) is volume of distribution in region of interest, f(P) is free fraction in plasma). Remission was defined as a posttreatment depression score of less than 10 as well as 50% or more reduction in the score from baseline, resulting in 14 nonremitters (HDRS-24 = 17.6) and 12 remitters (HDRS-24 = 5.3). Results: A linear mixed-effects model comparing group differences in the a priori regions of interest (amygdala and midbrain) revealed a significant difference in amygdala binding between controls and remitters (P = 0.03, unadjusted), where remitters had an 11% lower amygdala binding than controls. Differences in amygdala binding between remitters and nonremitters approached significance (P = 0.06). No additional differences were found between any groups (all P > 0.05). Additionally, we found no relationship between pretreatment amygdala binding and posttreatment depression score, and were unable to predict posttreatment depression severity using both pretreatment 5-HTT (in the amygdala) and 5-HT(1A) binding (in the raphe). Conclusion: These results suggest 5-HTT amygdala binding should be examined further, in conjunction with other measures, as a potential biomarker for remission after standardized escitalopram treatment.

