Debata, P. R., et al. (2010). "Erk1/2-dependent phosphorylation of PKCalpha at threonine 638 in hippocampal 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated signaling." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 397(3): 401-406.

	Stimulation of the serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)-R) causes activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (Erk) and protein kinase C alpha (PKCalpha) in both hippocampal HN2-5 cells and cultured hippocampal slices from postnatal day-15 (P15) mice. Our earlier studies demonstrated that PKCalpha is co-immunoprecipitated with Erk and the phosphorylation of PKCalpha in this Erk-PKCalpha complex is dependent on the Erk pathway. Furthermore, the T(638) residue, which must be phosphorylated for the complete activation of PKCalpha, is within an authentic Erk consensus domain (S/TP), and the PKCalpha protein also contains two docking sites for Erk such as KRGRIYL and KRGIIYRDLKL. Using Foster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) we have confirmed an association between Erk and PKCalpha. Employing PKCalpha and Erk mutants we next demonstrated that Erk causes direct phosphorylation and activation of PKCalpha. By mutating the phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK-1)-promoted phosphorylation site (S(497)) and the kinase site (K(368)) in PKCalpha, we observed that both of these autophosphorylation-deficient mutants are phosphorylated at T(638) in an Erk-dependent manner. To confirm that Erk indeed catalyzes phosphorylation of PKCalpha at T(638), we used a mutant Erk construct in which a relatively large amino acid residue in the ATP binding site (Q(103)) had been replaced with glycine, enabling this mutant to utilize a bulky analog of ATP, cyclopentyl ATP. An in vitro kinase assay using this mutant Erk protein, radiolabeled cyclopentyl ATP, and a synthetic oligopeptide containing the S/TP site of PKCalpha demonstrated phosphorylation of the peptide by Erk1/2. These results confirm the novel possibility that PKCalpha is a direct substrate of Erk1/2 in neuronal cells and help link two important signaling molecules that regulate maturation and protection of hippocampal neurons as well as many other cell types.

