Conner, D. A. and T. E. Mansour (1990). "Serotonin receptor-mediated activation of adenylate cyclase in the neuroblastoma NCB.20: a novel 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor." Mol Pharmacol 37(5): 742-751.

	Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) and its analogs activate adenylate cyclase in membrane particles from neuroblastoma NCB.20 cells. Low concentrations of GTP (EC50 = 60 nM) were required for activation by serotonin. Guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) inhibited serotonin-activated cyclase in these cells. The nonhydrolyzable GTP analogs guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (EC50 = 3 nM) and guanylyl-imidodiphosphate (EC50 = 100 nM) substituted for GTP in potentiating serotonin activation. Pretreatment of the cells with cholera toxin potentiated enzyme activation by serotonin, whereas pertussis toxin was found to have little effect, indicating the involvement of the alpha subunit of a stimulatory GTP-binding protein in enzyme activation. Homologous desensitization of the serotonin-stimulated adenylate cyclase was demonstrated in membranes prepared from intact cells pretreated with serotonin. Cell membrane particles that were desensitized to serotonin were still responsive to beta-adrenergic agonists and to prostaglandin E1. Evidence is presented indicating that serotonin stimulation of adenylate cyclase is mediated by receptors that are distinct from other positively coupled receptors (beta-adrenergic, histamine, and prostacyclin). Equilibrium binding analysis with [3H]serotonin, [3H]lysergic acid diethylamide, and [3H]dihydroergotamine suggested that the site density was below the level of detection of binding of these radioligands. The pharmacological characteristics of the serotonin-activated cyclases were analyzed in order to compare these serotonin receptors with the family of different receptor subtypes. Correlation analysis between the potencies of different agonists and antagonists at the cyclase in these cells and their reported relative potencies for different serotonin receptor subtypes showed no correlation with the 5-HT1A, 5HT1B, 5HT1D, 5-HT2, and 5-HT3 receptors. On the other hand, the analysis showed that the NCB.20 serotonin receptors are similar but not identical to the rat and pig brain 5-HT1C receptors and to the serotonin receptors coupled to adenylate cyclase in the trematodes Schistosoma mansoni and Fasciola hepatica. The results point to a novel serotonin receptor which has a low density in these cells.

