Dutschmann, M., et al. (2009). "The potency of different serotonergic agonists in counteracting opioid evoked cardiorespiratory disturbances." Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B-Biological Sciences 364(1529): 2611-2623.

	Serotonin receptor (5-HTR) agonists that target 5-HT4(a)R and 5-HT1AR can reverse mu-opioid receptor (mu-OR)-evoked respiratory depression. Here, we have tested whether such rescuing by serotonin agonists also applies to the cardiovascular system. In working heart-brainstem preparations in situ, we have recorded phrenic nerve activity, thoracic sympathetic chain activity (SCA), vascular resistance and heart rate (HR) and in conscious rats, diaphragmatic electromyogram, arterial blood pressure (BP) and HR via radio-telemetry. In addition, the distribution of 5-HT4(a)R and 5-HT1AR in ponto-medullary cardiorespiratory networks was identified using histochemistry. Systemic administration of the mu-OR agonist fentanyl in situ decreased HR, vascular resistance, SCA and phrenic nerve activity. Subsequent application of the 5-HT1AR agonist 8-OH-DPAT further enhanced bradycardia, but partially compensated the decrease in vascular resistance, sympathetic activity and restored breathing. By contrast, the 5-HT4(a)R agonist RS67333 further decreased vascular resistance, HR and sympathetic activity, but partially rescued breathing. In conscious rats, administration of remifentanyl caused severe respiratory depression, a decrease in mean BP accompanied by pronounced bradyarrhythmia. 8-OH-DPAT restored breathing and prevented the bradyarrhythmia; however, BP and HR remained below baseline. In contrast, RS67333 further suppressed cardiovascular functions in vivo and only partially recovered breathing in some cases. The better recovery of mu-OR cardiorespiratory disturbance by 5-HT1AR than 5-HT4(a)R is supported by the finding that 5-HT1AR was more densely expressed in key brainstem nuclei for cardiorespiratory control compared with 5-HT4(a)R. We conclude that during treatment of severe pain, 5-HT1AR agonists may provide a useful tool to counteract opioid-mediated cardiorespiratory disturbances.

