Arborelius, L., et al. (2000). "Partial 5-HT1A receptor agonist properties of (-)pindolol in combination with citalopram on serotonergic dorsal raphe cell firing in vivo." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 151(1): 77-84.

	RATIONALE: Pindolol has been reported to shorten the onset of antidepressant action of selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) as well as to increase their efficacy. It has been postulated that pindolol enhances the antidepressant effect of SSRIs by blocking somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors, thus antagonizing the SSRI-induced feedback inhibition of midbrain 5-HT cell firing. A recent study, however, found that pindolol suppresses the firing rate of central 5-HT cells, suggesting that the compound possesses agonistic activity at 5-HT1A autoreceptors. OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the present study was to investigate if acute administration of (-)pindolol antagonizes the decrease in firing rate of dorsal raphe 5-HT cells produced by acute treatment with the SSRI citalopram. METHODS: Extracellular recordings of single 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus in anaesthetized rats. RESULTS: Administration of 0.25 or 3.0 mg/kg (IV) (-)pindolol alone decreased the firing rate of a majority of the 5-HT cells studied, an effect that was reversed by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 (0.1 mg/kg, IV). Neither 0.25 nor 3.0 mg/kg (-)pindolol reversed the citalopram (0.1-0.2 mg/kg. IV)-induced suppression of 5-HT cell activity, but produced a further decrease in firing rate. In contrast, WAY100635 (0.1 mg/kg) completely reversed this effect of citalopram. Yet, pretreatment with 3.0, but not 0.25 mg/kg (-)pindolol significantly attenuated the acute inhibitory effect of citalopram on serotonergic cell firing. CONCLUSIONS: The present findings support the previous notion that (-)pindolol possesses prominent agonistic activity at somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors, but also indicate that it may possess a weak antagonistic action at these receptors.

