Fitzgerald, L. W., et al. (1993). "Specificity of behavioral and neurochemical dysfunction in the chakragati mouse: a novel genetic model of a movement disorder." Brain Res 608(2): 247-258.

	The chakragati (ckr) mouse is a transgenic insertional mutant that displays lateralized circling behavior, locomotor hyperactivity, hyperexcitability as well as body weight deficits. The mutation is autosomal and recessive. We have previously found that ckr mice have bilateral asymmetric elevations in striatal dopamine (DA) D2-like (D2, D3 and/or D4), but not D1-like (D1 and/or D5) receptors. Predictably, these mice increase turning in response to the D2-like agonist quinpirole and spontaneously rotate contralateral to the striatal side with the higher D2-like receptors. The overall objective of the present study was to assess the neurochemical specificity of the mutation in ckr mouse, particularly since motor behaviors can be elicited by a multitude of brain regions and neurotransmitter systems within the basal ganglia. Using quantitative receptor autoradiography, we examined the regional distribution of DA uptake sites and 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B/1D, GABAA and mu opioid receptors. Also, we wanted to determine whether increased behavioral laterality as seen in rotation is evident with another test of laterality, such as lateral paw preference. The ckr mice showed greater paw preferences than normal mice; however, neither the degree nor direction of these preferences correlated with rotational behavior. The ckr mice showed moderate decreases in the density of DA uptake sites in all subregions of the striatum, but not in the nucleus accumbens or olfactory tubercle. Interestingly, these decreases in ckr mice were not accompanied by a reduction in striatal tissue DA content. 5-HT1 and mu opiate receptor populations were normal in ckr mice. However, GABAA sites in the mediodorsal thalamus and superior colliculus were bilaterally and asymmetrically elevated in ckr mice. These data are consistent with the idea that the motor phenotypes of the ckr mouse result from specific disturbances within nigro-striatal, striato-pallido-thalamic and striato-nigro-collicular circuitry. The implications of these and past findings are discussed in relation to current thinking about hyperkinetic motor syndromes in humans involving reduced basal ganglia outflow.

