Gomez-Lazaro, E., et al. (2012). "Effects of a putative antidepressant with a rapid onset of action in defeated mice with different coping strategies." Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology & Biological Psychiatry 38(2): 317-327.

	There is evidence suggesting that stressful social events may result in depressive-like disorders, but the development of these disorders depend on the way in which people cope with stress. Although antidepressants are useful their drawback is a delay in the therapeutic effects, moreover not all the patients show an adequate response to this treatment. The aim of this study was to analyse the effect of RS 67333, which is a 5-HT4 receptor partial agonist and a putative antidepressant which exhibits a rapid onset of action and to determine whether this drug reverses the behavioural and physiological effects that are generated by chronic defeat in subjects who manifest a more vulnerable profile in their response to stress. Male mice were exposed to defeat for 21 consecutive days using a sensorial contact model. After 18 days of defeat, 2 groups of subjects were established, active and passive, in accordance with the behaviour that was manifested during social confrontation, and drug treatment was initiated for 5 days. Finally, the animals were subjected to a forced swimming test (FST). The results revealed higher corticosterone levels in passive mice after the last defeat. Additionally, 3 days after the last defeat, they showed lower corticosterone levels and higher splenic IL-6 and TNF-alpha levels and hypothalamic GR mRNA levels when compared to their active and manipulated control counterparts. Passive mice had higher 5-HT1A receptor mRNA levels than the manipulated controls and a lower MR/GR ratio than active mice. Similar to stress, the drug increased hypothalamic GR mRNA levels, but it did not affect other measured physiological variables or social behaviour, which suggested that the mechanism of this drug is not the most adequate for reversing stress-induced effects in this model. Nevertheless, the treatment increased swimming and decreased immobility in the FST, suggesting an antidepressant potential for this drug. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

