Dow-Edwards, D. L. (1998). "Preweaning cocaine administration alters the adult response to quipazine: Comparison with fluoxetine." Neurotoxicol Teratol 20(2): 133-142.

	This study investigated whether exposure to cocaine during the preweaning period affects the behavioral response to administration of a challenge dose of quipazine, a relatively nonselective serotonin (5-HT) mixed agonist/antagonist, in adulthood. To determine whether selective inhibition of the 5-HT transporter during the preweaning period would produce a cocaine like pattern of effects, another group of rats was given fluoxetine, a highly selective and potent inhibitor of the 5-HT transporter, and was tested along with the cocaine-treated rats. Male and female rats received 25 mg/kg cocaine HCl (82.5 mu mol/kg), 25 mg/kg fluoxetine HCl (72.3 mu mol/kg), or vehicle subcutaneous (SC) during postnatal days 11-20. Both treatments reduced weight gain during the injection period only. At 60 days of age, subjects were administered a single dose of quipazine (0, 0.4, or 1.0 mg/kg, SC) and placed in the Accuscan activity monitor for 1 h of behavioral recording. Overall, distance traveled, vertical activity, and time in the center of the chamber decreased during the initial time blocks of the session and vertical activity decreased with increasing doses of quipazine. Females in general showed greater overall activity levels than males as well as greater responsivity to quipazine. Preweaning cocaine exposure produced different effects in males and females. In males: cocaine enhanced the response to quipazine for vertical activity whereas it had no effect on quipazine-induced alterations on the other two behaviors. On the other hand, cocaine-treated females showed dampened dose-related quipazine responses across all behavioral measures. Fluoxetine administration produced a dampening of the quipazine effect for vertical activity and distance traveled in males and females. Therefore, these data indicate that cocaine administration during the preweaning period of development produced an increase in the effect of a serotonergic drug to alter vertical activity in males and a global dampening of the behavioral responses to that same drug in females. Preweaning fluoxetine treatment produced effects that resembled those produced by cocaine in females, a dampening of serotonergic responsivity, along with an overall decrease in locomotor activity. Because the majority of effects are seen during the initial portion of the behavioral session, a lime of heightened activity in response to a novel environment, the data suggest that inhibition of the 5-HT transporter during the preweaning period alters serotonergic influence over novelty-induced activity but that brief periods of inhibition or other actions of cocaine, such as those at the catecholamine transporters, prevent this from happening, particularly in males. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Inc.

