Gall, J. I., et al. (2020). "Insights into serotonergic and antioxidant mechanisms involved in antidepressant-like action of 2-phenyl-3-(phenylselanyl)benzofuran in mice." Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry 102: 109956.

	Monoaminergic and oxidative dysfunctions have been reported to play a role in depression. The present study investigated the antioxidant potential as well as the antidepressant-like action of 2-phenyl-3-(phenylselanyl)benzofuran (SeBZF1) in male Swiss mice. Time and dose-response curves were analyzed with the forced swim (FST) and tail suspension (TST) tests, in which SeBZF1 elicited antidepressant-like effects. Serotonergic mechanisms were investigated in the TST. The pre-administration of WAY100635 (selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, 0.1 mg/kg, subcutaneous route), ketanserin (5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist, 1 mg/kg, intraperitoneal route, i.p.), and chlorophenylalaninemethyl ester (p-CPA) (selective tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor, 100 mg/kg, i.p., for 4 days), but not of ondansetron (selective 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, 1 mg/kg, i.p.), abolished the antidepressant-like action of SeBZF1 (50 mg/kg, intragastric route, i.g.). Co-administration of sub-effective doses of SeBZF1 (1 mg/kg, i.g.) and fluoxetine (5 mg/kg, i.p., selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) was effective in producing anti-immobility effects in the TST, revealing a synergistic effect. Besides, p-CPA induced hippocampal oxidative stress, characterized by a reduction of total thiols and lipoperoxidation, which was reversed by SeBZF1 (50 mg/kg). The in vitro screening of the antioxidant action of SeBZF1 in brain tissue reinforced these results. Lastly, SeBZF1 did not cause systemic toxicity at a high dose (300 mg/kg). In summary, the present study demonstrated that SeBZF1 exerted antidepressant-like action in male mice which appears to be mediated by the serotonergic system. Moreover, SeBZF1 elicited in vitro antioxidant action in brain tissue, attenuated the hippocampal oxidative damage induced by 5-HT depletion in mice and showed no toxic signs.

