Eaton, M. J., et al. (1997). "Lumbar transplants of immortalized serotonergic neurons alleviate chronic neuropathic pain." Pain 72(1-2): 59-69.

	The RN46A cell line was derived from embryonic day 13 rat medullary raphe cells by infection with a retrovirus encoding the temperature-sensitive mutant of SV40 large T antigen. This cell line is neuronally restricted and constitutively differentiates following a shift to non-permissive temperature. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induced the serotonergic phenotype and increased the survival of RN46A cells in vitro. After transfection of the rat BDNF gene into RN46A cells, an autocrine BDNF-secreting cell line, 46A B14, was isolated and transplanted into the rat CNS. Transplanted 46A-B14 cells had increased survival and enhanced serotonin (5HT) synthesis compared to 46A-V1 cells, RN46A cells transfected with vector-alone. When 46A-B14 cells were transplanted in the lumbar subarachnoid space of the spinal cord 1 week after a chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve, they survived longer than 6 weeks on the pia mater. Furthermore, the tactile and cold allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia induced by CCI was significantly reduced during a 4-6- week period. The maximal effect occurred 1 week after transplantation. 46A-V1 cells, transplanted after CCI, did not survive beyond 2-3 weeks and had no effect on the allodynia and hyperalgesia induced by CCI. Acute intrathecal injection of the 5HT receptor antagonist methysergide decreased the antinociceptive effects sf the 46A-B14 cells to pre-transplant levels. These data suggest that a chronically applied, low local dose of serotonin near the dorsal horn was able to reverse the development of chronic neuropathic pain following CCI. The use of neural cell lines that are able to deliver inhibitory neurotransmitters such as serotonin, in a model of chronic pain offers a novel approach to pain management. (C) 1997 International Association for the Study of Pain. Published by Elsevier Science B.V.

