Flores, C. M., et al. (1992). "Partial characterization of a neurotransmitter pathway regulating the in vivo release of prolactin." Neuroendocrinology 55(5): 519-528.

	Nicotinic cholinergic, opiate and serotonergic agonists as well as dopaminergic antagonists induce the release of pituitary prolactin. The purposes of the present studies were to determine if nicotine, morphine and the serotonin1A (5-HT1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) utilize a common synaptic pathway to release prolactin and, if so, to establish the serial order of the receptors involved. We also sought to determine whether the pathway under investigation leads to the secretion of prolactin via a mechanism involving dopamine, the prolactin inhibitory factor. Male rats with indwelling jugular catheters were pretreated with saline, mecamylamine, naltrexone, methysergide or bromocriptine. In the saline-treated animals, administration of nicotine, morphine, 8-OH-DPAT and haloperidol resulted in significant increases in plasma prolactin levels. Mecamylamine pretreatment prevented the prolactin response to nicotine only. Naltrexone blocked the stimulation of prolactin release by morphine and by nicotine. Methysergide inhibited the effects of 8-OH-DPAT, morphine and nicotine but not haloperidol. Bromocriptine blocked the prolactin secretion induced by haloperidol as well as by each of the above agonists. Also, in dual-immunocytochemically stained sections, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells and serotonin-immunoreactive processes were detected in close anatomical proximity in the dorsomedial arcuate nucleus. These data indicate that nicotine, morphine and 8-OH-DPAT act to release prolactin via a common synaptic pathway expressing nicotinic cholinergic, opiate, and 5-HT1A receptors at synapses arranged serially in that functional order. Furthermore, the data indicate that the in vivo secretion of prolactin via this pathway may ultimately occur through the inhibition of dopamine release.

