Gonzalez-Maeso, J., et al. (2003). "Transcriptome fingerprints distinguish hallucinogenic and nonhallucinogenic 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptor agonist effects in mouse somatosensory cortex." Journal of Neuroscience 23(26): 8836-8843.

	Most neuropharmacological agents and many drugs of abuse modulate the activity of heptahelical G-protein-coupled receptors. Although the effects of these ligands result from changes in cellular signaling, their neurobehavioral activity may not correlate with results of in vitro signal transduction assays. 5-Hydroxytryptamine 2A receptor (5-HT2AR) partial agonists that have similar pharmacological profiles differ in the behavioral responses they elicit. In vitro studies suggest that different agonists acting at the same receptor may establish distinct patterns of signal transduction. Testing this hypothesis in the brain requires a global signal transduction assay that is applicable in vivo. To distinguish the cellular effects of the different 5-HT2AR agonists, we developed an assay for global signal transduction on the basis of high throughput quantification of rapidly modulated transcripts. Study of the responses to agonists in human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably expressing 5-HT2ARs demonstrated that each agonist elicits a distinct transcriptome fingerprint. We therefore studied behavioral and cortical signal transduction responses in wild-type and 5-HT2AR null-mutant mice. The hallucinogenic chemicals (+/-)- 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) and lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) stimulated a head-twitch behavioral response that was not observed with the nonhallucinogenic lisuride hydrogen maleate (LHM) and was absent in receptor null-mutant mice. We also found that DOI, LSD, and LHM each induced distinct transcriptome fingerprints in somatosensory cortex that were absent in 5-HT2AR null-mutants. Moreover, DOI and LSD showed similarities in the transcriptome fingerprints obtained that were not observed with the behaviorally inactive drug LHM. Our results demonstrate that chemicals acting at the 5-HT2AR induce specific cellular response patterns in vivo that are reflected in unique changes in the somatosensory cortex transcriptome.

