Ding, N., et al. (2016). "[Effect of Acupuncture and Moxibustion Interventions on Ethological Changes and 5-HT/5-HIAA Levels in Prefrontal Cortex in Depression Rats]." Zhen Ci Yan Jiu 41(1): 45-50.

	OBJECTIVE: To observe the effect of acupuncture and moxibustion interventions on ethology and 5-HT/5-HIAA levels in the frontal cortex tissue in depression rats, so as to reveal their biological mechanisms underlying improvement of depression. METHODS: A total of 40 male SD rats were randomized into normal control, depression model, medication (Fluoxetine), acupuncture and moxibustion groups, with 8 rats in each group. The depression model was established by chronic unpredictable mild stress for 5 weeks. The interventions including acupuncture or moxibustion stimulation of "Baihui" (GV 20) and "Dazhui" (GV 14) for 20 min/d and intragastric administration of Fluoxetine (1.8 mg . kg(-)(1) . d(-)(1)) beginning after 2 weeks of modeling for 3 weeks. The percentages of sucrose consumption was counted, the contents of 5-HT, hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA), tryptophan (Trp) in the prefrontal cortex tissue were assayed by radioimmunoassay, and the relative binding affinities (constant and capacity) of 5-HT1A receptor in the prefrontal cortex were measured by radioligand binding assay and Scatchard plot analysis in a computer. Results In comparison with the normal control group, the sucrose consumption percentage on the 35th day of modeling, the levels of cerebral cortical 5-HT, 5-HT/5-H1AA and 5-HT1A receptor binding constant were significantly down-regulated in the model group (P < 0.01, P < 0.05), and the cortical Trp content was obviously up-regulated in the model group (P < 0.01). Compared with the model group, the sucrose consumption percentage on the 35th day of modeling, and cortical 5-HT/5-HIAA in the medication, acupuncture and moxibustion groups, cortical 5-HT content in the medication group were significantly increased (P< 0.01, P < 0.05), and cortical 5-HIAA and Trp contents were obviously down-regulated in the three treatment groups (P < 0.01). No significant changes were found in the cortical 5-HT content after acupuncture and moxibustion, and in the high and lower affinity of 5-HTA receptor binding constant and binding capacity after medication, acupuncture and moxibustion interventions (P > 0.05). The effects of acupuncture and moxibustion interventions were comparable in increasing sucrose consumption percentage on the 35th day and 5-HT/5-HIAA, and in down-regulating cortical Trp content (P > 0.05). CONCLUSION: Both acupuncture and moxibustion can increase sucrose consumption (anti-depression) in depression rats, which may be closely associated withheir effects in up-regulating 5-HT/5-HIAA and down-regulating Trp content in the frontal cortex.

