Glass, J. D., et al. (2000). "Dorsal raphe nuclear stimulation of SCN serotonin release and circadian phase-resetting." Brain Research 859(2): 224-232.

	Serotonin (5-HT) is strongly implicated in the regulation of mammalian circadian rhythms. However, little is known of the functional relationship between the circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and its source of serotonergic innervation, the midbrain raphe nuclei. In previous studies, we reported that electrical stimulation of the dorsal or median raphe nuclei (DRN and MRN, respectively) induced 5-HT release in the SCN. Notably, DRN- but not MRN-stimulated 5-HT release was blocked by the 5-HT1,2,7 antagonist, metergoline, suggesting that the DRN signals to the SCN indirectly via the activation of a 5-HT-responsive multisynaptic pathway. In the present study, pretreatment with the 5-HT2,7 antagonist, ritanserin, also significantly inhibited DRN-electrically stimulated SCN 5-HT release. However, pretreatment with the 5-HT1A antagonist, NAN-190, or the 5-HT2 antagonists ketanserin and cinanserin had Little suppressive effect on this DRN-stimulated 5-HT release. In complementary behavioral trials, electrical stimulation of the DRN during subjective midday caused a 1.3-h advance in the free-running circadian activity rhythm under constant darkness, which was inhibited by metergoline. Collectively, these results are evidence that: (1) DRN-stimulated 5-HT release in the SCN requires the activation of an intermediate target with receptors having 5-HT7 pharmacological characteristics; (2) electrical stimulation of the DRN induces phase-resetting of the circadian activity rhythm; and (3) activation of 5-HT receptors is necessary for this DRN-stimulated circadian phase-resetting. In view of the dynamic changes in DRN neuronal activity incumbent with the daily sleep-activity cycle, and its functional linkages to the SCN and intergeniculate leaflet, the DRN could serve to provide behavioral/arousal state information to various sites comprising the brain circadian system. (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

