Gardier, A. (2005). "Mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs: Importance of genetically modified mice in the pharmacological in vivo approach." Therapie 60(5): 469-476.

	The main hypothesis regarding the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs is monoaminergic and mainly involves two neurotransmitters, serotonin and noradrenaline. Despite the well-recognized therapeutic efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), some disadvantages still occur. For example, they often require 4-6 weeks to achieve clinical benefits in depressed patients. In the past, some molecules that could shorten this long delay of action have been identified. The role of presynaptic autoreceptors - the activation of which leads to an inhibitory feedback control on neurotransmitter synthesis and release - has been extensively studied for antidepressant effects. In our laboratory, we studied the combined effects of an SSRI and a serotonin autoreceptor antagonist of the 5-HT1B subtype using intracerebral in vivo microdialysis in awake, freely moving mice. Important information on SSRIs has been obtained by applying this technique to genetically modified animals, such as constitutive knockout (KO) mice lacking 5-HT1B receptors (5-HT1B KO) generated by homologous recombination: we compared the effects of a combined treatment on extracellular/intrasynaptic levels of serotonin in various nerve terminals area in wild-type control and KO mice. Thus, we found that indirect activation of 5-HT1B autoreceptors limits the effects of SSRIs on dialysate 5-HT levels at serotonergic nerve terminals such as the ventral hippocampus. The study of substance P (neurokinin 1 receptor [R-NK1]) offers another example of the use of KO mice in the development of a new class of antidepressant drugs. NK1 receptor antagonists may display anxiolytic/antidepressant-like properties. The lack of selective compounds for each tachykinin receptor subtype (R-NK1, R-NK2 or R-NK3) and differences in their affinity between animal species have made R-NK1 KO mice a very useful experimental tool. In collaborative work we found that genetic (R-NK1 KO mice) or pharmacological (GR205171) blockade of R-NK1 is associated with several changes: the increase in cortical 5-HT outflow caused by systemic injection of paroxetine was 4- to 6-fold higher in freely moving R-NK1 KO mice than in wild-type controls. The constitutive lack of NK1 receptors is associated with a functional desensitization of somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors, resembling that induced by chronic treatment with SSRI antidepressants. These results highlight the link between a neurotransmitter (serotonin) and a neuropeptide (substance P). This genetic strategy allowed us to point out that multiple targets participate to the effects of classical antidepressant drugs within the brain. We hope that, soon, some mice lines (constitutive or tissue specific, conditional rescue mice having alterations of sleep/wakefulness and/or food intake, altered central serotonin and/or noradrenaline neurotransmission, deficit in neurotrophic factors, but increases in intrasynaptic concentrations of substance P) could be a relevant model of the physiopathology of depressive disorders, and could help us understand the appearance of some symptoms. These recent findings suggest that instead of being rejected, the monoaminergic hypothesis of depression should be improved, corrected and completed by studying the role of other neurotransmitter, neuromodulatory compounds (substance P, BDNF [brain-derived neurotrophic factor]). By doing so, it thus could be possible to improve antidepressant drug treatment, i.e. shorten their long delay of action and/or to decrease treatment resistance or improve its tolerance.

