Devadoss, T., et al. (2010). "Effect of acute and chronic treatment with QCF-3 (4-benzylpiperazin-1-yl) (quinoxalin-2-yl) methanone, a novel 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, in animal models of depression." Pharmacol Rep 62(2): 245-257.

	The serotonin type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptor is unique among the seven recognized serotonin receptor "families". The existence serotonin type 3 receptor (5-HT(3)) in neuro-anatomical regions stimulated the research interest for novel therapeutic targets such as anxiety, depression, nociception and cognitive function. In the current study, (4-benzylpiperazin-1-yl) (quinoxalin-2-yl) methanone (QCF-3), a novel 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, with an optimal log P (the logarithm of the ratio of the concentrations of the un-ionized solute in the solvents is called log P) and significant pA2 value (is a negative logarithm of the molar concentration of antagonist required to reduce the effect of multiple dose agonist to that of single dose) was screened for its anti-depressant potential using rodent behavioral models of depression. Psycho-pharmacological investigations involved acute and chronic treatment (14 days) with QCF-3 and assessment of behavior during the forced swim test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST) in mice and olfactory bulbectomised rats. A dose response study in mice revealed an initial anti-depressant-like effect of QCF-3 (0.5-4 mg/kg, ip) in the FST and TST. Interaction studies showed that QCF-3 (1 and 2 mg/kg) significantly enhanced the antidepressant action of fluoxetine and bupropion in the FST and TST, respectively. QCF-3 (1 and 2 mg/kg) potentiated the 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) induced head twitches response in mice and reversed reserpine-induced hypothermia in rats. Further, OBX rats exhibited behavioral anomalies in the open field and hyper-emotionality tests that were attenuated by chronic QCF-3 treatment. In conclusion, this behavioral study describes an antidepressant-like effect of QCF-3 in rodent behavioral models of depression.

