Ellingrod, V. L. and P. J. Perry (1995). "Nefazodone: A new antidepressant." American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy 52(24): 2799-2812.

	The chemistry, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and clinical efficacy of nefazodone hydrochloride, a new antidepressant, are described. Nefazodone enhances serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) synaptic transmission by acting as an antagonist at 5-HT2 receptors and by inhibiting the reuptake of 5-HT. These two mechanisms combined may enhance 5-HT1A-mediated transmission. In addition, nefazodone weakly inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine. Nefazodone is a structural analogue of trazodone but is pharmacologically distinct. In placebo-controlled trials, nefazodone was as effective as imipramine for the treatment of major depression and produced clinical benefits in patients with depression-related anxiety and sleep disturbances. More than 2000 patients have received nefazodone in clinical trials. The most commonly reported adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are asthenia, somnolence, dry mouth, nausea, constipation, dizziness, lightheadedness, confusion, abnormal vision, and blurred vision. The incidence of sexual-dysfunction ADRs may be less than that reported for other antidepressants. Nefazodone does not inhibit rapid-eye movement sleep. Nefazodone, an inhibitor of the hepatic P-450 isoenzyme CYP3A4, may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this isoenzyme, such as terfenadine, astemizole, triazolam, alprazolam, and midazolam. Caution should be exercised in administering nefazodone hydrochloride with triazolobenzodiazepines, and coadministration with terfenadine or astemizole is contraindicated. The dosage should start at 100 mg twice daily and then be increased, depending on occurrence of ADRs and the patient's clinical response, to 300-600 mg daily. In elderly or debilitated patients, the initial dosage should be half the usual dosage. Nefazodone hydrochloride is as effective as other available antidepressants and may cause fewer ADRs.

