Gabbard, S. and B. E. Lacy (2014). The Pharmacology of the Gut-Brain Axis: Prospects for Future Therapeutic Progress? Functional and Gi Motility Disorders. E. M. M. Quigley, M. Hongo and S. Fukudo. 33: 117-129.

	The brain-gut axis is the bidirectional communication system that includes the central nervous system, the enteric nervous system, the wall and lumen of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, and the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. This active bidirectional highway links emotional and cognitive centers in the brain with the GI tract. In health, the brain-gut axis is important for regulating appetite, food intake, gut immune function, and the coordination of GI tract function with the emotional state of the organism. In a variety of disease states, the normal physiology of the brain-gut axis may be disturbed, and this can lead to changes in gut motility, secretion and immune function. Disruption of normal brain-gut axis physiology plays a role in the generation of many GI symptoms, including abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea and constipation. These symptoms are commonly found in patients classified as having functional GI disorders (FGIDs). FGIDs are characterized by recurrent symptoms in GI tract that cannot be explained by currently available endoscopic, radiologic, or biochemical tests. FGIDs are highly prevalent; conservative estimates are that at least 40% of the population has symptoms of at least one FGID. To date, 28 separate FGIDs have been defined and characterized in adults, and this includes the two most clinically relevant FGIDs, irritable bowel syndrome and functional dyspepsia. For years, treatment for most FGIDs focused simply on medications that targeted the GI tract. Recognition of the key role that the brain-gut axis plays in symptom generation in FGID patients has opened up new avenues for therapeutic intervention. This review will briefly summarize new treatment options that focus on the brain-gut axis, with an emphasis on FGIDs. (C) 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel

