Di Liberto, V., et al. (2018). "Imaging correlates of behavioral impairments: An experimental PET study in the rat pilocarpine epilepsy model." Neurobiol Dis 118: 9-21.

	Psychiatric comorbidities are prevalent in patients with epilepsy and greatly contribute to the overall burden of disease. The availability of reliable biomarkers to diagnose epilepsy-associated comorbidities would allow for effective treatment and improved disease management. Due to their non-invasive nature, molecular imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) are ideal tools to measure pathologic changes. In the current study we investigated the potential of [(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose ([(18)F]FDG) and 2'-methoxyphenyl-(N-2'-pyridinyl)-p-(18)F-fluoro-benzamidoethylpiperazine ([(18)F]MPPF) as imaging correlates of neurobehavioral comorbidities in the pilocarpine rat model of epilepsy. Findings from rats with epilepsy revealed a regional reduction in [(18)F]FDG uptake indicating thalamic hypometabolism. In addition, an increase in septal [(18)F]MPPF binding was observed in rats with spontaneous recurrent seizures. Both thalamic [(18)F]FDG and septal [(18)F]MPPF data proved to correlate with behavioral alterations including decreases in luxury behavior such as burrowing and social interaction, and changes in behavioral patterns in anxiety tests. A correlation with seizure frequency was confirmed for thalamic [(18)F]FDG data. Moreover, thalamic [(18)F]FDG and septal [(18)F]MPPF data exhibited a correlation with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) serum concentrations, which were lowered in rats with epilepsy. In conclusion, muPET data from rats with pilocarpine-induced epileptogenesis indicate altered septal 5-HT1A receptor binding. Further research is necessary assessing whether septal 5-HT1A receptor binding may serve as an imaging correlate of neuropsychiatric comorbidities in epilepsy patients and for severity assessment in rodent epilepsy models. In contrast, we obtained evidence that [(18)F]FDG uptake also reflects the severity of epilepsy and, thus, might not constitute a biomarker with sufficient specificity for psychiatric comorbidities. Evidence has been obtained that BDNF might serve as a peripheral circulatory biomarker. Further experimental and clinical assessment is necessary for validation of the marker candidates.

