Freitas, R. L., et al. (2008). "Serotonergic neurotransmission in the dorsal raphe nucleus recruits in situ 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors to modulate the post-ictal antinociception." Exp Neurol 213(2): 410-418.

	The post-ictal immobility syndrome is followed by a significant increase in the nociceptive thresholds in animals and humans. The aim of this study was to assess the involvement of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) in the post-ictal antinociception. The second aim was to study the role of serotonergic intrinsic mechanisms of the DRN in this hypo-algesic phenomenon. Pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), an ionophore GABA-mediated Cl(-) influx antagonist, was peripherally used to induce tonic-clonic seizures in Wistar rats. The nociceptive threshold was measured by the tail-flick test. Neurochemical lesions of the DRN, performed with microinjection of ibotenic acid (1.0 microg/0.2 microL), caused a significant decrease of tonic-clonic seizure-induced antinociception, suggesting the involvement of this nucleus in this antinociceptive process. Microinjections of methysergide (1.0 and 5.0 microg/0.2 microL), a non-selective serotonergic receptor antagonist, into DRN caused a significant decrease in the post-ictal antinociception in seizing animals, compared to controls, in all post-ictal periods presently studied. These findings were corroborated by microinjections of ketanserin (at 1.0 and 5.0 microg/0.2 microL) into DRN. Ketanserin is an antagonist with large affinity for 5-HT(2A/2C) serotonergic receptors, which, in this case, caused a significant decrease in the tail-flick latencies in seizing animals, compared to controls after the first 20 min following tonic-clonic convulsive reactions. These results indicate that serotonergic neurotransmission of the DRN neuronal clusters is involved in the organization of the post-ictal hypo-algesia. The 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors of DRN neurons seem to be critically involved in the increase of nociceptive thresholds following tonic-clonic seizures.

