Fitzgerald, L. W., et al. (1995). "REGULATION OF CORTICAL AND SUBCORTICAL GLUTAMATE-RECEPTOR SUBUNIT EXPRESSION BY ANTIPSYCHOTIC-DRUGS." Journal of Neuroscience 15(3): 2453-2461.

	Because glutamate is an important modulator of subcortical dopamine (DA) function, and abnormal glutamate/DA interactions may be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, we examined the effect of chronically, administered antipsychotic drugs (APDs) on the levels of specific glutamate receptor subunits in the terminal fields of nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic DA systems. By immunoblotting procedures using antibodies specific for the NMDAR1, GluR1, and GluR2 subunits, we found that haloperidol (predominantly a D-2-like antagonist) increased NMDAR1 subunit immunoreactivity (and mRNA levels) in the striatum, while the D-1-like antagonist SCH 23390 had the opposite effect. No effect was seen on GluR1 or GluR2 levels. The result that D-1-like and D-2-like receptor antagonism can reciprocally regulate NMDAR1 expression is consistent with our observation that complete unilateral destruction of the nigrostriatal DA pathway with 6-hydroxydopamine had no effect on striatal NMDAR1 subunit levels. Further examination of these striatal effects revealed that chronic treatment with the D-2-like receptor antagonist raclopride significantly increased NMDAR1 levels in the striatum, while the 5-HT2a/2c antagonist mianserin tended to produce an increase that did not achieve statistical significance. These findings indicate that the dopaminergic antagonist properties of haloperidol are likely most responsible for its regulation of this subunit. In contrast, the atypical APD clozapine had no effect on striatal NMDAR1 levels, consistent with the relatively weaker influence of this drug on nigrostriatal DA function. The second major finding of the present study was the ability of haloperidol and clozapine to increase GluR1 levels in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), whereas chronic SCH 23390 treatment decreased GluR1 levels. The failure of mianserin to influence GluR1 levels in the PFC is consistent with the notion that D-1- and D-2-like receptor antagonists can reciprocally regulate this subunit in this brain region. Finally, we observed that clozapine, but none of the other treatments examined, increased GluR2 levels in the frontal/parietal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and hippocampus. The regionally distinct effects of various APDs on levels of particular glutamate receptor subunits may be related to cell-specific expression patterns of these subunits in different forebrain sites. Regulation of glutamate receptor subunits may be an important and novel mechanism through which APDs exert some of their long-term effects on brain function.

