Hisaoka-Nakashima, K., et al. (2019). "Mirtazapine increases glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor production through lysophosphatidic acid 1 receptor-mediated extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling in astrocytes." European Journal of Pharmacology 860.

	Different classes of antidepressants, such as tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), have been shown to increase GDNF production in astrocytes, which could be a key mechanism of the psychotropic effect of antidepressants. The antidepressant mirtazapine is a noradrenaline and specific serotonergic antidepressant (NaSSA) and does not block reuptake of catecholamines and serotonin. The present study examined the effect of mirtazapine on GDNF expression in rat C6 astroglial cells (C6 cells) and rat primary cultured cortical astrocytes (primary astrocytes). Mirtazapine treatment significantly increased GDNF mRNA expression and GDNF release in both C6 cells and primary astrocytes. In primary astrocytes, mirtazapine also increased the expressions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA. To mimic mirtazapine's putative mechanism of action, cells were treated with either a alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist (yohimbine), 5-HT2 receptor antagonist (ketanserin), 5-HT3 receptor antagonist (on-dansetron), or a mixture of these-no effect on GDNF mRNA expression was observed. Mirtazapine treatment increased phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, and the mirtazapine-induced GDNF and BDNF expression were blocked by MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK) inhibitor (U0126). Furthermore, the effect of mirtazapine on ERK phosphorylation and expressions of GDNF and BDNF was antagonized by Gi/o inhibitor (pertussis toxin), lysophosphatidic acid-1 (LPA(1)) receptor antagonist (AM966), and LPA(1)/LPA(3) receptors antagonist (Ki16425). The current findings demonstrate that the NaSSA mirtazapine, similar to other classes of antidepressants, increases GDNF expression through a Gi/o coupled LPA(1) receptor-mediated ERK pathway. The current findings suggest a general mechanism underlying the psychotropic effect antidepressants.

