Huang, J., et al. (2004). "5-HT3A receptor subunits in the rat medial nucleus of the solitary tract: subcellular distribution and relation to the serotonin transporter." Brain Research 1028(2): 156-169.

	The 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5HT3) receptor is a serotonin-gated ion channel implicated in reflex regulation of autonomic functions within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). To determine the relevant sites for 5-HT3 receptor mediated transmission in this region, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to examine the subcellular distribution of the 5HT3 receptor subunit A (5HT3A) in relation to the serotonin transporter (SERT) in the intermediate medial NTS (mNTS) of rat brain. The 5HT3A immunolabeling was detected in many axonal as well as somatodendritic and glial profiles. The axonal profiles included small axons and axon terminals in which the 5HT3A immunoreactivity was localized to membranes of synaptic vesicles and extrasynaptic plasma membranes. In dendrites and glia, the 5HT3A immunoreactivity was located on the plasma membranes or in association with membranous cytoplasmic organelles. The dendritic plasmaleminal 5HT3A labeling was prominent within and near excitatory-type synapses from terminals including those that resemble vagal afferents. The 5HT3A-labeled glial processes apposed 5HT3A-immunoreactive axonal and dendritic profiles, some of which also contained SERT. Terminals containing 5-HT3A and/or SERT were among those providing synaptic input to 5HT3A-labeled dendrites. Thus, 5HT3A has a subcellular distribution consistent with the involvement of 5-HT3 receptors in modulation of both presynaptic release and postsynaptic responses of mNTS neurons, some of which are serotonergic. The results further suggest that the neuronal as well as glial 5HT3 receptors can be activated by release of scrotonin from presynaptic terminals or by diffusion facilitated by SERT distribution at a distant from the synapse. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

