Haleem, D. J. (2009). "Exaggerated feedback control decreases brain serotonin concentration and elicits hyperactivity in a rat model of diet-restriction-induced anorexia nervosa." Appetite 52(1): 44-50.

	5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) system is the major neurotransmitter system of interest in research on anorexia nervosa (AN). The AN patients show extreme dieting weight loss, hyperactivity and low basal levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), a major metabolite of 5-HT in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Studies on animal models show that diet restriction (DR) decreases 5-HT metabolism in the brain and hypothalamus which is not necessarily associated with a decrease in the availability of essential amino acid tryptophan (TRP) the precursor of serotonin. To further investigate the mechanism involved in DR-induced decreases of 5-HT the present study uses 8-hydroxy-(2-di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a selective 5-HT-1A agonist, as a probe to monitor the responsiveness of negative feedback control over 5-HT metabolism. Effects of DR and of 8-OHDPAT on TRP, 5-HT and 5-HIAA concentrations are determined in the hypothalamus, a region of the brain known to role in the regulation of appetite. Animals of DR group given access to food 2 h daily for 6 days exhibited 21.6% decrease in the body weight compared to freely feeding (FF) controls. The levels of TRP in the plasma and of 5-HT in the hypothalamus decreased. No effect was found on the levels of TRP in the hypothalamus. 8-OH-DPAT-induced decreases of 5-HT and 5-HIAA were greater in DR than FF group. 8-OH-DPAT-induced hyperactivity was also greater in DR than FF group. The results show that DR-induced decreases of 5-HT are due to an increase in the responsiveness of negative feedback control over 5-HT and not due to smaller availability of TRP. DR-induced increase in activity and 8-OH-DPAT-induced greater hyperactivity in DR than FF group may also be due to exaggerated negative feedback control over 5-HT. It is suggested that drugs decreasing the responsiveness of negative feedback control over 5-HT may be of use for the treatment and prevention of AN in under weight patients on restricted diet. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

