Haider, S., et al. (2012). "Role of somatodendritic and postsynaptic 5-HT(1)A receptors on learning and memory functions in rats." Neurochem Res 37(10): 2161-2166.

	Memory impairment is a major problem afflicting mankind. The association between memory functions and neurotransmitter functions is of great interest for understanding brain function. Serotonergic pathways play an important role in the modulation of memory functions but the importance of its receptor types and subtypes on memory functions is still unclear. Activation and blockade of various serotonin (5-HT) receptors has been reported to alter cognitive processes and 5-HT receptor antagonism could be beneficial in the treatment of cognitive diseases. The role of 5-HT on memory functions is complicated. Among the 5-HT receptors subtypes, 5-HT(1A) receptors are of special interest because these receptors are present in the brain areas involved in learning and memory functions such as hippocampus and cortex. The present study was therefore designed to investigate the effect of activation and blockade of somatodendritic and/or postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptor on learning and memory functions in rats using modified version of water maze. In this study, 8-OH-DPAT (8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino) tetralin) at 0.3 mg/kg significantly enhanced learning acquisition (LA), short-term memory (STM) and long term memory (LTM) of rats pre-injected with saline suggesting that the activation of pre-synaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors by its agonist enhanced the memory functions of rats. Conversely, rats injected with 8-OH-DPAT at 1.0 mg/kg exhibited impaired LA and STM and had no effect on LTM. It was also shown in this study that blockade of 5-HT(1A) receptors by spiperone enhanced LA, had no effect on STM but impaired the LTM, which showed that the blockade of 5-HT(1A) receptors by its antagonist exerts different effect on different types of memory. This study suggests that 5-HT(1A) receptor could be used as a significant pharmacological target for the treatment of CNS diseases. Unraveling the role of serotonin in cognition and memory disorders could provide better therapy and it may lead to new insights in our understandings of learning and memory.

