Hoffman, J. M., et al. (2007). "Activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the paragigantocellularis lateralis decreases shivering during cooling in the conscious piglet." Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 293(1): R518-527.

	Activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the medullary raphé decreases sympathetic outflow to thermoregulatory mechanisms, including brown adipose tissue (BAT), thermogenesis, and peripheral vasoconstriction when these mechanisms are previously activated with leptin, prostaglandins, or cooling. These same mechanisms are also inhibited during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. It is not known whether shivering is also modulated by medullary raphé neurons. We previously showed in the conscious piglet that activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors with 8-OH-DPAT (DPAT) in the paragigantocellularis lateralis (PGCL), a medullary region lateral to the midline raphé that contains 5-HT neurons, decreases heart rate, body temperature and muscle activity during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. We therefore hypothesized that activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the PGCL would also attenuate shivering and peripheral vasoconstriction during cooling. During REM sleep in a cool environment, shivering, carbon dioxide production, and body temperature decreased, and ear capillary blood flow and ear skin temperature increased. Shivering associated with rapid cooling was attenuated after dialysis of DPAT into the PGCL. In animals maintained in a continuously cool environment, dialysis of DPAT into the PGCL attenuated shivering and decreased body temperature, but there were no significant increases in ear capillary blood flow or ear skin temperature. We conclude that both naturally occurring REM sleep and exogenous activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the PGCL are associated with a suspension of shivering during cooling. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that 5-HT neurons in the PGCL facilitate oscillating spinal motor circuits involved in shivering but are less involved in modulating sympathetically mediated thermoregulatory mechanisms.

