Gunther, L., et al. (2008). "Effects of chronic citalopram treatment on 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in group- and isolation-housed mice." European Journal of Pharmacology 593(1-3): 49-61.

	Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) are characterized by high clinical effectiveness and good tolerability. A 2-3 week delay in the onset of effects is caused by adaptive mechanisms, probably at the serotonergic (5-HT) receptor level. To analyze this in detail, we measured 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptor bindings in vitro after 3 weeks of citalopram treatment (20 mg/kg i.p. daily) in group-housed as well as isolation-housed mice, reflecting neurobiological aspects seen in psychiatric patients. Isolation housing increased somatodendritic (+52%) and postsynaptic (+30-95%) 5-HT1A as well as postsynaptic 5-HT2A receptor binding (+25-34%), which confirms previous findings. Chronic citalopram treatment did not induce alterations in raphe 5-HT1A autoreceptor binding, independent of housing conditions. Housing-dependent citalopram effects on postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor binding were found with increases in group- (+11-42%) but decreases in isolation-housed (-11 to 35%) mice. Forebrain 5-HT2A receptor binding decreased between 11 and 38% after chronic citalopram administration, independent of housing conditions. Citalopram's long-term action comprises alterations at the postsynaptic 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptor binding levels. Housing conditions interact with citalopram effects, especially on 5-HT1A receptor binding, and should be more strongly considered in pharmacological studies. In general. SSRI-induced alterations were more pronounced and affected more brain regions in isolates, supporting the concept of a higher responsiveness in "stressed" animals. Isolation-induced receptor binding changes were partly normalized by chronic citalopram treatment. suggesting the isolation housing model for further analyses of SSRI effects, especially at the behavioral level. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

