Gupta, D., et al. (2016). "A novel 5HT(3) antagonist 4i (N-(3-chloro-2-methylphenyl)quinoxalin-2-carboxamide) prevents diabetes-induced depressive phenotypes in mice: Modulation of serotonergic system." Behavioural Brain Research 297: 41-50.

	Despite the presence of a multitudinous pharmacotherapy, diabetes-induced depressive disorder remains undertreated. Evidence suggests that brain serotonergic deficits are associated with depressive-like behavior in diabetes and that 5HT(3) receptor (5HT3R) antagonists have serotonergic facilitatory effects. This study examined the effects of a novel 5HT3R antagonist, 4i (N-(3-chloro-2-methylphenyl)quinoxalin-2-carboxamide), in diabetes-induced depressive phenotypes. Experimentally, (1) to evaluate the effects of 4i, mice with 8-weeks of diabetes (induced by streptozotocin, 200 mg/kg, i.p.) were treated with vehicle, 4i (0.5 and 1 mg/kg/day, i.p.), fluoxetine (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.) for 4-weeks and subjected to neurobehavioral assays, followed by biochemical estimation of serotonin levels in midbrain, prefrontal-cortex and cerebellum. (2) To evaluate the role of 5HT3R in the postulated effect of 41, diabetic mice were given 4i (1 mg/kg/day, i.p.) after 1 h of 1-(m-chloropheny1)-biguanide (mCPBG, a 5HT3R agonist, 10 mg/kg/day, i.p.) treatment and subjected to the same protocol. The results showed that diabetic mice exhibited a significant behavioral deficit, including depression-like behavior in forced swim test, anxiety-like in open field test and sociability deficits in social interaction test, along with a significant decrease in serotonin level in these brain regions. 4i (1 mg/kg), similar to fluoxetine, prevented these behavioral abnormalities and normalized brain serotonin levels. 41(0.5 mg/kg) ameliorated only diabetes-induced depressive-like behavior and serotonin deficits, but not anxiety-like effects. mCPBG blunted 4i-mediated behavioral response and increase in brain serotonin levels. Altogether, this study suggests that 4i prevents diabetes-induced depressive phenotypes in mice, which may involve antagonism of 5HT3Rs and increase in serotonin levels in discrete brain regions. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

