Haleem, D. J., et al. (2007). "Reversal of haloperidol-induced tardive vacuous chewing movements and supersensitive somatodendritic serotonergic response by buspirone in rats." Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behavior 87(1): 115-121.

	Tardive dyskinesia (TD), a syndrome of involuntary hyperkinesias in the orofacial region that develops in patients chronically treated with neuroleptic agents is a major limitation of the therapy. Rats chronically treated with haloperidol exhibit vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) with the twitching of facial musculature and tongue protrusion. The syndrome is widely used as an animal model of TD. Evidence suggests a role of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin)-1A receptors in the pathogenesis and treatment of TD because repeated administration of haloperidol resulted in an increase in the effectiveness of 5-HT-1A receptors while drugs with agonist activity at 5-HT-1A receptors could attenuate haloperidol-induced VCMs. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that a decrease in the responsiveness of somatodendritic 5-HT-1A receptors by the coadministration of buspirone could reverse the induction of VCMs and supersensitivity at 5-HT-1A receptors by haloperidol. Rats treated with haloperidol at a dose of 1 mg/kg twice a day for 2 weeks displayed VCMs with twitching of facial musculature that increased in a time dependent manner as the treatment continued to 5 weeks. Coadministration of buspirone attenuated haloperidol-induced VCMs after 2 weeks and completely prevented it after 5 weeks. The intensity of 8-hydroxy-2-di (n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT)-induced locomotion was greater in saline +haloperidol injected animals but not in buspirone+haloperidol injected animals. 8-OH-DPAT-induced decreases of 5-HT metabolism were greater in saline +haloperidol injected animals but not in buspirone+haloperidol injected animals. It is suggested that an impaired somatodendritic 5-HT-1A receptor dependent response is a major contributing factor in the pathophysiology of TD and a normalization of the somatodendritic response by drugs may help extending therapeutics in schizophrenia. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

