Gothert, M. (1992). "5-HYDROXYTRYPTAMINE RECEPTORS - AN EXAMPLE FOR THE COMPLEXITY OF CHEMICAL TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION IN THE BRAIN." Arzneimittelforschung-Drug Research 42-1(2A): 238-246.

	Since serotoninergic axon terminals (the cell bodies of which are mainly located in the raphe nuclei of the brain stem) innervate virtually all brain regions, it is intelligible that the serotoninergic system is involved in many physiological and pathological cerebral functions. The marked heterogeneity of the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)receptors and the differences in distribution of the various 5-HT receptor types and subtypes within the brain makes serotoninergic neurotransmission in the brain very complex. This complexity of chemical transmission of information is a prerequisite for the development of drugs which may specifically influence certain cerebral functions, but which do not mimic or block other effects of 5-HT, thus making it possible to reduce or even avoid undesired side effects. The current classification scheme of 5-HT receptors is based on the integration of results of pharmacological, biochemical, electrophysiological and molecular investigations. The multiplicity of 5-HT receptors can be incorporated into the scheme of two main receptor families, i.e. 1. the G protein receptor family, comprising, among the 5-HT receptors, the 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 subtypes and the 5-HT4 type, and 2. the ligand gated ion channels to which (at least according to the current knowledge) only one 5-HT receptor, the 5-HT3 type, belongs. The three 5-HT1 subtypes and the two 5-HT2 subtypes of the current classification scheme, but not the 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptors, have already been cloned. 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors are coupled to adenylate cyclase, and they occur, e.g., as inhibitory somadendritic (5-HT1A) or presynaptic (5-HT1B/D) autoreceptors on the 5-HT neurones themselves and postsynaptically (5-HT1A) in limbic structures. The 5-HT2 receptor main class consists of the 5-HT1C subtype (inconsistency in nomenclature due to premature naming) and the "classical" 5-HT2 receptor. Both subtypes are coupled to the phosphatidylinositol turnover, their amino acid sequence exhibits high homology, and they have certain pharmacological properties in common. Cerebral 5-HT4 receptors are positively coupled to adenylate cyclase, and their function in the brain (in contrast to that in the periphery) is not yet known. The 5-HT3 receptor protein is not only endowed with the ligand recognition site but also constitutes an ion channel (i.e. it exhibits the typical features of the receptor family of ligand gated ion channels). Upon receptor stimulation, conductance of the channel for monovalent cations increases, and as a result of Na+ influx, depolarization of the cell membrane and excitation of the respective neurone occurs. Mixed full/partial 5-HT1A receptor agonists as well as 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 receptor antagonists are currently developed as new anxiolytic drugs. Antidepressant properties have been observed with mixed full/partial 5-HT1A receptor agonists and 5-HT2 receptor antagonists, and presynaptic 5-HT1D autoreceptor antagonists may also exhibit such properties. 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 receptor antagonists seem to represent new therapeutic approaches towards schizophrenia. Finally, it should be emphasized that the current classification scheme of 5-HT receptors is preliminary, since further types and subtypes obviously exist and since certain inconsistencies in nomenclature should be eliminated.

