Fuller, R. W. (1991). "ROLE OF SEROTONIN IN THERAPY OF DEPRESSION AND RELATED DISORDERS." Journal of Clinical Psychiatry 52: 52-57.

	Several developments in serotonin neuropharmacology have implications for psychiatric disorders and have already begun to impact their treatment. Selective inhibitors of serotonin uptake, which enhance serotonergic function by preventing the removal of serotonin from the synaptic cleft via the membrane transporter, have been introduced for the treatment of depression and may be effective in other disorders. Precursor loading can increase serotonin concentrations in the synaptic cleft, and tryptophan-which has been available in health food stores and drug stores-has become increasingly used for self-medication of depression, insomnia, and premenstrual syndrome. Conversion to serotonin is not the major metabolic pathway for tryptophan, and large increases in other tryptophan metabolites (such as quinolinic acid, a substance that is excitotoxic at high concentrations) accompany small increases in extracellular serotonin. The recent epidemic of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with tryptophan now appears due to a trace contaminant in the product from a single manufacturer. A major advance in serotonin pharmacology has been the elucidation of serotonin receptor heterogeneity. At least seven receptor subtypes (5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1C, 5-HT1D, 5-HT2, 5-HT3, 5-HT4) have been identified in brain. Direct-acting agonists and antagonists can have selective affinity for specific receptor subtypes. Selective activation of 5-HT1A receptors seems to cause anxiolytic and possibly antidepressive effects. Selective antagonists of 5-HT2 or 5-HT3 receptors may be useful in treating anxiety and schizophrenia. Drugs that enhance serotonergic function suppress aggression in animals, but the specific receptor subtypes involved are not known. The advances being made in serotonin pharmacology will help define the role of this brain neurotransmitter in psychiatric and other disorders and can be expected to lead to further therapeutic advances.

