Hashimoto, K. and H. Kita (2008). "Serotonin activates presynaptic and postsynaptic receptors in rat globus pallidus." Journal of Neurophysiology 99(4): 1723-1732.

	Although recent histological, behavioral, and clinical studies suggest that serotonin (5-HT) plays significant roles in the control of pallidal activity, only little is known about the physiological action of 5-HT in the pallidum. Our recent unit recording study in monkeys suggested that 5-HT provides both presynaptic and postsynaptic modulations of pallidal neurons. The present study using rat brain slice preparations further explored these presynaptic and postsynaptic actions of 5-HT. Bath application of 5-HT or the 5-HT1A/1B/1D/5/7 receptor (R) agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine maleate (5-CT) depolarized some and hyperpolarized other pallidal neurons. Pretreatments of slices with blockers of the hyperpolarization -cyclic nucleotide-activated current or with the 5-HT2/7 R-selective antagonist mesulergine occluded 5-CT -induced depolarization. The 5-HT1AR -selective blocker N-[2- 4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl] ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide maleate occluded the 5-CT -induced hyperpolarization. These results suggested involvement of 5-HT7R and 5-HT1AR in the postsynaptic depolarization and hyperpolarization, respectively. 5-CT presynaptically suppressed both internal capsule stimulation induced excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and striatal stimulation -induced inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). The potencies of 5-CT on the presynaptic effects were 20-to 25-fold higher than on postsynaptic effects, suggesting that 5-HT mainly modulates presynaptic sites in the globus pallidus. Experiments with several antagonists suggested involvement of 5-HT1B/DR in the presynaptic suppression of EPSCs. However, the receptor type involved in the presynaptic suppression of IPSCs was inconclusive. The present results provided evidence that 5-HT exerts significant control over the synaptic inputs and the autonomous activity of pallidal neurons.

