Kim, J. A., et al. (1997). "Effects of maternal ethanol consumption and buspirone treatment on 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in offspring." Alcoholism-Clinical and Experimental Research 21(7): 1169-1178.

	In utero ethanol exposure results in a decreased concentration of serotonin (5-HT) in brain regions containing the cell bodies of 5-HT neurons and their cortical projections. The concentration of 5-HT reuptake sites is also reduced in several brain areas. The present study extended prior work by evaluating the effects of chronic maternal ethanol consumption and maternal buspirone treatment on 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in multiple brain areas of offspring. Receptors were quantitated early in postnatal development and at an age when the 5-HT networks are normally well-established. Because fetal 5-HT functions as an essential neurotrophic factor, these studies also determined whether treatment of pregnant rats with buspirone, a 5-HT1A agonist, could overcome the effects of the fetal 5-HT deficit and prevent ethanol-associated receptor abnormalities, The results demonstrated that in utero ethanol exposure significantly alters the binding of 0.1 nM [H-3]-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin to 5-HT1A receptors in developing animals, Ethanol impaired the development of 5-HT1A receptors in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex, and lateral septum; these receptors did not undergo the normal developmental increase between postnatal days 19 and 35, The dentate gyrus was also sensitive to the effects of in utero ethanol exposure. 5-HT1A receptors were increased in this region at 19 days. Maternal buspirone treatment prevented the ethanol-associated abnormalities in 5-HT1A receptors in the dentate gyrus, frontal cortex, and lateral septum. Neither maternal ethanol consumption nor buspirone treatment altered the binding of 2 nM [H-3]ketanserin to 5-HT2A receptors in the ventral dentate gyrus, dorsal raphe, parietal and frontal cortexes, striatum, substantia nigra, or nucleus accumbens.

