Karim, N., et al. (2018). "Antidepressant potential of novel flavonoids derivatives from sweet violet (Viola odorata L): Pharmacological, biochemical and computational evidences for possible involvement of serotonergic mechanism." Fitoterapia 128: 148-161.

	Plant-derived natural constituents are of great interest in modern drug discovery due to their natural diversity. Viola odorata L has been traditionally used for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. The present study was undertaken to isolate phytoconstituents including three flavonoids 5,7-Dihydroxy-3,6-dimethoxyflavone [1] 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'dimethoxyflavone [2] and 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3'-methoxyflavone [3] from the whole plant of Viola odorata L and to investigate the antidepressant-like effects of these compounds and their possible mechanism of action using antagonists of the serotonergic, dopaminergic and adrenergic system. Classical animal models of depression including tail suspension test (TST) and forced swimming test (FST) using mice were used to evaluate the antidepressant-like effects. Mice were divided into various groups and were administered with either vehicle control, fluoxetine (FLX), or test compounds 1-3 intraperitoneally (i.p.). For experiments involving mechanism determination, mice were pretreated with 5-HT, dopamine and adrenergic antagonists. The brain 5-HT levels were determined following FST. Molecular docking studies were carried out to determine the binding affinity of compounds 1-3 to serotonergic receptors. The results indicated that compounds 1-3 at the dose of 1-30 mg/kg, i.p significantly decreased the immobility time in the FST and TST in mice. The reduction in immobility time was reversed by pre-treating the mice with pCPA (5-FIT synthesis inhibitor) 100 mg/kg, i.p. and 5-HT receptor antagonists including WAY100635 (5-HTla antagonist), ketanserin (a 5-HT2a antagonist) and ondansetron (5-HT3 antagonist) but not with prazosin (al-adrenergic antagonist) and SCH23390 (Dl dopaminergic antagonist) or haloperidol (D2 dopaminergic antagonist). Moreover, in neurochemical assays, compounds 1-3 caused a significant increase in the 5-HT level in the brain tissue as compared to vehicle. These increases were reversed in the mice groups pretreated with pCPA. Furthermore, molecular docking results also depict that compounds 1-3 can interact with 5HT1A, 5HT2A, and 5HT3 receptors, and are more specific to the 5HT3 receptor subtype. In conclusion, the findings of this study clearly suggest that compounds 1-3 possess antidepressant-like effects which might be mediated via the serotonergic system.

