Konthapakdee, N., et al. (2019). "Serotonin exerts a direct modulatory role on bladder afferent firing in mice." Journal of Physiology-London 597(21): 5247-5264.

	Key points Functional disorders (i.e. interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome and irritable bowel syndrome) are associated with hyperexcitability of afferent nerves innervating the urinary tract and the bowel, respectively. Various non-5-HT3 receptor mRNA transcripts are expressed in mouse urothelium and exert functional responses to 5-HT. Whilst 5-HT3 receptors were not detected in mouse urothelium, 5-HT3 receptors expressed on bladder sensory neurons plays a role in bladder afferent excitability both under normal conditions and in a mouse model of chronic visceral hypersensitivity. These data suggest that the role 5-HT3 receptors play in bladder afferent signalling warrants further study as a potential therapeutic target for functional bladder disorders. center dot center dot center dot center dot Serotonin (5-HT) is an excitatory mediator that in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract plays a physiological role in gut-brain signalling and is dysregulated in functional GI disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Patients suffering from IBS frequently suffer from urological symptoms characteristic of interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome, which manifests due to cross-sensitization of shared innervation pathways between the bladder and colon. However, a direct modulatory role of 5-HT in bladder afferent signalling and its role in colon-bladder neuronal crosstalk remain elusive. The aim of this study was to investigate the action of 5-HT on bladder afferent signalling in normal mice and mice with chronic visceral hypersensitivity (CVH) following trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis. Bladder afferent activity was recorded directly using ex vivo afferent nerve recordings. Expression of 14 5-HT receptor subtypes, the serotonin transporter (SERT) and 5-HT-producing enzymes was determined in the urothelium using RT-PCR. Retrograde labelling of bladder-projecting dorsal root ganglion neurons was used to investigate expression of 5-HT3 receptors using single cell RT-PCR, while sensory neuronal and urothelial responses to 5-HT were determined by live cell calcium imaging. 5-HT elicited bladder afferent firing predominantly via 5-HT3 receptors expressed on afferent terminals. CVH animals showed a downregulation of SERT mRNA expression in urothelium, suggesting increased 5-HT bioavailability. Granisetron, a 5-HT3 antagonist, reversed bladder afferent hypersensitivity in CVH mice. These data suggest 5-HT exerts a direct effect on bladder afferents to enhance signalling. 5-HT3 antagonists could therefore be a potential therapeutic target to treat functional bladder and bowel disorders.

