Joseph, J. A., et al. (1998). "Receptor- and age-selective effects of dopamine oxidation on receptor-G protein interactions in the striatum." Free Radic Biol Med 24(5): 827-834.

	The striatum contains a high concentration of oxidizable dopamine (DA), and the aged organism shows a decreased ability to respond to oxidative stress (OS), making this area extremely vulnerable to free radical insult. To determine the receptor specificity of this putative increase in OS sensitivity, striatal slices from 6- and 24-month-old animals were incubated (30 min, 37 degrees C) in a modified Krebs medium containing 0 to 500 microM DA with or without a preincubation (15 min) in a nitrone trapping agent, 1 or 5 mM alpha-phenyl-n-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN), and changes in low Km GTPase activity (an index of receptor-G protein coupling/uncoupling) assessed in muscarinic, 5-HT1A D1, and D2 receptors stimulated with carbachol, 8 OH-DPAT-HBr, SKF 38393, or quinelorane, respectively. DA exposure induced selective decreases in the stimulated activity in all of these receptor systems, and an overall increase in conjugated dienes (56%) of the young. In the case of carbachol and 8 OH-DPAT-HBr, the DA-induced deficits in GTPase stimulation were seen primarily in the young (61 and 32%, respectively), while DA-induced deficits in quinelorane (D2) stimulation were seen in both age groups. In the case of SKF 38393-stimulation (D1) the DA-induced deficits were higher in the striatal tissue from the old. The DA-induced decreases in carbachol stimulated GTPase activity in the tissue from the young could be prevented by pretreatment with PBN or the DA uptake inhibitor, nomifensin. No effect of nomifensin was seen in the old, because their DA uptake mechanisms were already compromised. These results suggest that although age-related declines in DA uptake may provide some protection against the OS effects in muscarinic or 5-HT1A receptors, other factors may increase the vulnerability of DA neurons to OS, even with reductions in DA uptake.

