Katagiri, H., et al. (2001). "Modulation of serotonin2A receptor function in rats after repeated treatment with dexamethasone and L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine." Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology & Biological Psychiatry 25(6): 1269-1281.

	1. It has been conceivable that the hypo thalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity plays an important role in the pathophysiology of depression. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of repeated treatment with dexamethasone on serotonin (5-HT) 1A, 5-HT2A and al-adrenergic receptors in the rat frontal cortex. Moreover, several studies have suggested the effectiveness of L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine for the treatment of depression. We also investigated the effect of repeated treatment with nimodipine on 5-HT2A receptor in rats with repeated dexamethasone treatment. 2. Repeated treatment with dexamethasone (1 mg/kg/day for 14 days) increased the density of 5-HT2A receptor, but not 5-HT1A and al-adrenergic receptors in the rat frontal cortex. 3. The density of 5-HT2A receptor in the rat frontal cortex was significantly increased 1 day after repeated treatment with dexamethasone, but was not increased 7 or 14 days after repeated treatment. Wet dog shakes (WDS) induced by (+/-)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride (DOI), a 5-HT2A receptor agonist, in rats were significantly enhanced 1, 7 and 14 days after repeated treatment with dexamethasone, although the frequency of WDS gradually decreased after repeated treatment. 4. Repeated treatment with nimodipine (5 mg/kg/day for 14 days) attenuated DOI-induced WDS enhanced by repeated treatment with dexamethasone (1 mg/kg/day for 14 days), however, it did not change the density of 5-HT2A receptor. Repeated treatment with dexamethasone decreased locomotor activity and body weight, but repeated treatment with nimodipine did not recover these parameters. 5. The results of the present study suggest that repeated treatment with dexamethasone may selectively increase the 5-HT2A receptor in the rat frontal cortex and affect 5-HT2A receptor-mediated signal transduction. In addition, the intracellular calcium homeostasis by blocking calcium influx through L-type calcium channel may play an important role in the regulation of the 5-HT2A receptor function by dexamethasone.

