Avgustinovich, D. F., et al. (1998). "[The characteristics of the functional activity of the brain serotoninergic system in the manifestation of natural and pathological anxiety in mice: the effect of the genotype]." Zh Vyssh Nerv Deiat Im I P Pavlova 48(2): 331-341.

	Anxiety was estimated in intact male mice of C57BL/6J (C57) and (CBA) and CBA/Lac (CBA) strains and in males of both strains after the repeated experience of social defeats (losers) in 10 daily aggressive confrontations. A plus-maze test for behavior in a novel situation and a partition test for communicative activity were applied. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) activity, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels were measured in the midbrain, hypothalamus, amygdala, hippocampus, and striatum in losers and controls (5 days of individual housing of intact animals). Intact C57 mice which demonstrated active avoidance in the maze had reduced TPH activity in the all studied brain regions compared to the intact CBA mice with passive behavior. The 5-HT catabolism in intact C57 was lower in the midbrain and hypothalamus and higher in amygdala, hippocampus, and striatum than in CBA mice. Chronic social stress led to expressed anxiety revealed by both tests in C57 losers in contrast to CBA ones. This anxiety was accompanied by an increase in 5-HIAA level and 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio in the midbrain as well as by an increase in 5-HT level and decrease in 5-HIAA level and 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio in the hippocampus of C57 losers in comparison with the controls. Flesinoxan (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), 5-HT1A receptor agonist, changed the communicative behavior of controls but was ineffective in losers. Thus, a decrease in sensitivity of 5-HT1A receptors was suggested in stress-induced anxiety of C57 losers. The less expressed anxiety in CBA losers was associated with less expressed changes in serotonergic metabolism. It is concluded that serotonergic mechanisms of pathological anxiety induced by the long-term social stress and those of natural anxiety in intact mice are different.

