Kline, A. E., et al. (2004). "The therapeutic efficacy conferred by the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) after experimental traumatic brain injury is not mediated by concomitant hypothermia." Journal of Neurotrauma 21(2): 175-185.

	We recently reported that the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8OH-DPAT) attenuated traumatic brain injury (TBI)-induced cognitive deficits and histopathology. However, 8-OH-DPAT also produced mild hypothermia (Hypo), which may have contributed to the benefit. To clarify this issue, we conducted an experiment similar to the previous, but included an 8-OH-DPAT group that was maintained at 37 +/- 0.5degreesC (normothermia; Normo). Isoflurane-anesthetized rats received either a cortical impact (2.7-mm deformation at 4 m/sec) or sham injury and then were randomly assigned to two saline (Sham/Vehicle, n = 5; Injury/Vehicle, n = 10) or three 8-OH-DPAT (Sham/DPAT, n = 5; Injury/DPAT+Normo, n 10; Injury/DPAT+Hypo, n = 10) groups. 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg) or a comparable volume of saline was administered intraperitoneally 15 min after cortical impact or sham injury. Core temperatures were taken prior to treatment and every 15 min thereafter for 2 h. Function was assessed by established motor and cognitive tasks on post-operative days 1-5 and 14-20, respectively. Hippocampal CA(1)/CA(3) cell survival and cortical lesion volume were quantified at 4 weeks. Both the Injury/DPAT+Normo and Injury/DPAT+Hypo groups exhibited enhanced cognitive performance (spatial acquisition and retention) and reduced histopathology (CA(3) cell loss and cortical lesion volume) versus the Injury/Vehicle group (P < 0.05), but did not differ from one another despite a rapid (15 min), mild (34.4-34.9degreesC), and transient (similar to1 h) hypothermic effect in the latter. These data confirm that a single systemic administration of 8-OH-DPAT confers neurological protection after TBI, and demonstrate that the beneficial effect is not mediated by concomitant hypothermia. The mechanisms for the protective effects of 8-OH-DPAT after TBI require further inquiry.

