Hertel, P., et al. (1998). "Modulation of central serotonergic neurotransmission by risperidone: underlying mechanism(s) and significance of action." Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry 22(5): 815-834.

	1. The effects of risperidone on brain 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neuronal activity were investigated using microdialysis in the frontal cortex (FC) or the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) as well as single cell recording in the DRN. 2. Systemic administration of risperidone (0.6 and 2.0 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently increased 5-HT output in both the FC and the DRN. 3. Local cortical administration of both risperidone or idazoxan enhanced the 5-HT efflux in the FC, whereas local raphe administration of risperidone but not idazoxan increased the output of 5-HT in the DRN. 4. Systemic administration of risperidone (200 micrograms/kg, i.v.) or the selective alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (400 micrograms/kg, i.v.) decreased, whereas selective alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (20 micrograms/kg, i.v.) increased the 5-HT cell firing in the DRN. 5. Pretreatment with the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100,635 (5.0 micrograms/kg, i.v.) effectively antagonized the inhibition of 5-HT cells induced by risperidone, but failed to prevent the prazosin-induced decrease in 5-HT cell firing in the DRN. 6. The inhibitory effect of risperidone on 5-HT cell firing in the DRN was significantly attenuated in rats pretreated with the 5-HT depletor PCPA (p-chlorophenylalanine; 300 mg/kg/day i.p. for 3 consecutive days) in comparison with drug naive animals. 7. Consequently, the risperidone-induced increase in 5-HT output in the FC may be related to its alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonistic action, an effect probably executed at the nerve terminal level, whereas the reduction in 5-HT cell firing by risperidone appears to be associated with increased availability of 5-HT in the somatodendritic region of the neurones leading to an enhanced 5-HT1A autoreceptor activation and, in turn, to inhibition of cell firing.

