Hertel, P., et al. (1999). "The antipsychotic drug risperidone interacts with auto- and hetero-receptors regulating serotonin output in the rat frontal cortex." Neuropharmacology 38(8): 1175-1184.

	We have previously shown that the antipsychotic drug risperidone enhances serotonin (5-HT) output in the rat frontal cortex (FC), but the precise underlying mechanism has not been revealed. Consequently, the present study using in vivo microdialysis was undertaken to (i) characterize the effects of alpha2D, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptor stimulation or blockade on 5-HT efflux in the FC given the purported regulatory role of these sites on 5-HT release, and (ii) to investigate the ability of risperidone to interfere with these receptors in order to examine their putative role in the facilitatory action or risperidone on cortical 5-HT output. Cortical perfusion with risperidone or the alpha2A/D, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonists idazoxan, isamoltane or GR 127,935, respectively, dose-dependently increased 5-HT efflux in the FC. Conversely, agonists at these receptors, i.e. clonidine, CP 93,129 or CP 135,807, respectively, decreased extracellular 5-HT concentrations. The agonist-induced decreases in 5-HT efflux were antagonized by coadministration of respective receptor antagonists. Risperidone attenuated the decrease in cortical 5-HT efflux elicited by clonidine or CP 135,807 but failed to affect the decrease elicited by CP 93,129. The present in vivo biochemical data indicate that the output of 5-HT in the FC is negatively regulated via alpha2D, 5-HT1B and tentatively also via 5-HT1D receptors located in the nerve terminal area. Moreover, the results indicate that risperidone acts as an antagonist at alpha2D and possibly 5-HT1D receptors in vivo, two properties which most likely contribute to its stimulatory effect on cortical 5-HT efflux. The facilitatory effect of risperidone on cortical serotonergic neurotransmission may be of significance for its therapeutic effect in schizophrenia, particularly when associated with affective symptomatology and/or intense anxiety. The effect may also contribute to alleviate signs of cortical dysfunction such as impaired cognition.

