Keck, B. J. and J. M. Lakoski (1997). "N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) administration for studies of 5-HT1A receptor binding site inactivation and turnover." Brain Res Brain Res Protoc 1(4): 364-370.

	Alterations in the function of the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) have been implicated in several neurobehavioral disorders, including depression, anxiety as well as a well-known disorder of aging, Alzheimer's disease. Age-dependent changes in the serotonergic system include a loss of 5-HT-containing fibers in brain areas which contain high levels of 5-HT1A receptors. Other changes with aging include decreased 5-HT levels, increases in monoamine oxidase (the major 5-HT degrading enzyme), and decreases in the density of 5-HT receptors. While age-related declines in the number of 5-HT1B and 5-HT2 receptors have been reported, little information is available describing the region-specific effects of aging on the functional dynamics of equilibrium binding at 5-HT receptors, including the 5-HT1A receptor subtype. For example, there are limited data showing a decrease in the maximal binding capacity (Bmax) of 5-HT1A receptors in the aging cortex of humans. However, changes in affinity (Kd) for this receptor subtype as a function of age and brain region have not been fully investigated. Other reports have failed to indicate age-related modifications in human and rat brain tissue 5-HT1A binding parameters. In contrast, electrophysiological studies suggest that the physiological function of the 5-HT1A receptor population is altered with aging. Therefore, to elucidate region-specific 5-HT1A receptor binding characteristics in aging rats, we have utilized a neurotoxic agent N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) to irreversibly inactivate 5-HT1A receptors. In this way, subsequent age-related changes that occur in 5-HT1A receptor binding characteristics may be investigated. EEDQ is an alkylating agent which irreversibly inactivates serotonergic receptors which are coupled to G proteins. This compound is appropriate for examining the binding profile of several 5-HT receptors, including the 5-HT1A receptor. The 5-HT1A binding site is among the most sensitive of the serotonergic receptor subtypes to inactivation by EEDQ and is also negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase via interaction with a Gi protein. Thus, EEDQ administration is a useful neurotoxicant to examine the relationship between aging and binding characteristics of 5-HT1A receptors. In addition, using EEDQ to inactivate 5-HT1A binding sites, we can further investigate the extent to which receptor binding characteristics (Bmax and Kd) return to baseline levels (i.e., recover) in an age- and brain region-dependent manner following a neurotoxic insult. That is, the age- and region-dependent recovery of 5-HT1A receptors may be monitored in a time-dependent manner to determine receptor turnover parameters, including receptor synthesis and degradation rate constants, and half-life values. Following receptor inactivation by EEDQ, 5-HT1A receptors repopulate (i.e., return to baseline levels) with time and exhibit region-specific turnover rates. Therefore, EEDQ administration is an effective pharmacological tool to investigate region-specific differences in 5-HT1A receptor turnover characteristics. Likewise, by utilizing this neurotoxicant the cellular mechanisms by which pharmacological agents interact with central 5-HT receptors and produce their effects in the aging brain can be addressed. We will illustrate the application of the neurotoxicant EEDQ to irreversibly inactivate 5-HT1A receptors. Following EEDQ administration, region-specific changes in 5-HT1A binding characteristics, including receptor density and drug affinity, and kinetics of receptor recovery will be demonstrated by Scatchard analyses and calculations of the recovery of these receptor populations illustrated. Based on the presence of high densities of 5-HT1A receptors in the hippocampus and frontal cortex, these brain regions will be studied for comparisons of both age- and region-specific alterations in receptor binding characteristics.

