Ichikawa, J., et al. (1998). "Effect of antipsychotic drugs on extracellular serotonin levels in rat medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens." Eur J Pharmacol 351(2): 163-171.

	Amperozide, clozapine, olanzapine and risperidone are more potent serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)2A receptor antagonists than dopamine D2-like receptor antagonists. Haloperidol and S(-)-sulpiride are potent or selective dopamine D2-like receptor antagonists and lack 5-HT2A receptor antagonist properties. We studied the effect of these five proven antipsychotic drugs and one putative (amperozide) antipsychotic drug on extracellular 5-HT levels in the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens of awake, freely-moving rats, using in vivo microdialysis with dual probe implantation. Risperidone (1 mg/kg) and clozapine (20 mg/kg) significantly increased extracellular 5-HT levels in the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens, respectively. Amperozide (2 and 10 mg/kg) significantly increased extracellular 5-HT levels in both regions. Olanzapine (1 and 10 mg/kg), S(-)-sulpiride (10 and 25 mg/kg), haloperidol (0.1 and 1 mg/kg) and the selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist MDL-100,907 (1 mg/kg) had no significant effect on extracellular 5-HT levels in either region. Thus, the ability to increase extracellular 5-HT levels in the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens by these antipsychotic drugs is not directly related to their affinity for 5-HT2A receptors since olanzapine and MDL-100,907 had no significant effect on extracellular 5-HT levels. A variety of mechanisms other than those involving 5-HT2A receptors, e.g., reuptake inhibition (amperozide) and blockade of alpha2-adrenoceptors (clozapine), may contribute to the ability to increase extracellular 5-HT levels in the brain. The increase in extracellular 5-HT levels in the medial prefrontal cortex or nucleus accumbens following amperozide, clozapine, or risperidone administration may not be related to the effect on psychotic symptoms but could be related to effects on other types of psychopathology such as depression, negative symptoms, or cognition.

