Azim, M. S., et al. (2017). "Effects of agomelatine on pentylenetetrazole-induced kindling, kindling-associated oxidative stress, and behavioral despair in mice and modulation of its actions by luzindole and 1-(m-chlorophenyl) piperazine." Epilepsy Behav 72: 140-144.

	In view of well-evidenced antiepileptic effects of melatonin and few reports of anticonvulsant action of agomelatine, the present study investigated whether agomelatine protects against pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced kindling in mice and kindling-associated oxidative stress, depression, and impairment of spatial memory. In order to explore whether effects are mediated by melatonergic or serotonergic mechanisms, 1-(m-chlorophenyl) piperazine (mCPP), selective 5HT2c receptor agonist and luzindole, melatonergic receptor antagonist, were taken as pharmacological tools. In view of few hepatotoxic reports on agomelatine, the study evaluated effects on hepatic enzyme levels. Swiss strain albino mice were injected with PTZ (25mg/kg, i.p.) once every two days for 5weeks to induce kindling. The effects of agomelatine (10mg/kg, p.o.) alone and in combination with luzindole (2.5mg/kg, i.p.) or mCPP (7mg/kg, i.p.) on seizure severity during induction and % incidence of animals kindled at the end of 5weeks were recorded. Modified forced swim test was used for studying depression-like behavior while spontaneous alternation behavior was used for studying effects on spatial memory. Serum AST and ALT concentrations, cortical and hippocampal malondialdehyde, and reduced glutathione were measured. Agomelatine 10mg/kg, p.o. effectively delayed development of kindling, reduced seizure severity, and decreased % incidence. Luzindole reversed the protective effects of agomelatine while mCPP failed to show such a reversal, indicating melatonergic (and not serotonergic) mechanisms in the observed effects. Agomelatine also showed antioxidant effects that can partially contribute to its anticonvulsant action. In addition, it alleviated PTZ-kindling-associated behavioral despair and favorably modulated liver enzymes. Its effects on improvement of kindling-associated spatial memory could possibly be related to its effects on locomotor activity. Agomelatine, thus, could be explored as an adjunct to antiepileptic drugs for seizure control and for alleviating epilepsy-associated depression.

