la Cour, C. M., et al. (2001). "Functional consequences of 5-HT transporter gene disruption on 5-HT1A receptor-mediated regulation of dorsal raphe and hippocampal cell activity." Journal of Neuroscience 21(6): 2178-2185.

	The consequences of the absence of 5-HT reuptake on the functional properties of 5-HT1A receptors were examined in the dorsal raphe nucleus and the hippocampus of knock-out mice lacking the serotonin transporter (5-HTT). Extracellular recordings showed that application of selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors such as paroxetine and citalopram onto brainstem slices resulted in a concentration-dependent inhibition of 5-HT neuron firing in the dorsal raphe nucleus of wild-type 5-HTT +/+ mice, but not 5-HTT -/- mutants. By contrast, the 5-HT1A receptor agonists ipsapirone and 5-carboxamidotryptamine inhibited the discharge in both groups. However, the potency of these agonists was markedly decreased (by similar to 55- and similar to6-fold, respectively) in 5-HTT -/- compared with 5-HTT +/+ animals. Similarly, intracellular recordings showed that the potency of 5-carboxamidotryptamine to hyperpolarize 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus was significantly lower in 5-HTT -/- than in 5-HTT +/+ animals. These data contrasted with those obtained with hippocampal slices in which 5-carboxamidotryptamine was equipotent to hyperpolarize CA1 pyramidal neurons in both mutant and wild-type mice. As expected from their mediation through 5-HT1A receptors, the effects of ipsapirone and 5-carboxamidotryptamine were competitively inhibited by the selective 5-HT1A antagonist WAY 100635 in both groups. These data showed that 5-HTT gene knock-out induced a marked desensitization of 5-HT1A autoreceptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus without altering postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor functioning in the hippocampus. Similarities between these changes and those evoked by chronic treatment with 5-HT reuptake inhibitors emphasize the existence of regional differences in 5-HT1A receptor regulatory mechanisms.

