Banerjee, P. (1993). "ROLE OF LIPIDS IN RECEPTOR-MEDIATED SIGNAL-TRANSDUCTION." Indian Journal of Biochemistry & Biophysics 30(6): 358-369.

	A new strategy has been successfully applied to reconstitute the brain specific serotonin 5-HT1A receptor-G protein-adenylate cyclase complex. A mild method of tissue preparation gave a stable, membrane-bound form of the receptor (SBP) which retained its natural lipid content. Treatment of SBP with serotonin (1 mu M) and 3-[( 3-cholamidopropyl) dimethyl ammonio]-1-propariesulphonate (CHAPS) (2%) solubilized the ligand-receptor-G protein-ligand complex along with the associated phospholipids and cholesterol. Dialysis of this extract (SBDS) against buffer containing 25% ethylene glycol produced a stable, reconstituted and active preparation (SBDSE) of vesicles which upon centrifugal separation followed by gentle resuspension retained 95-100% [H-3] 8-OH-DPAT binding activity as well as 60% [H-3] GppNHp binding and adenylate cyclase activities of SBDSE. The reconstituted receptor preparation compared well with the membrane-bound form in displaying a similar value for K-D (2.1 nM) and a single affinity state for [H-3] 8-OH-DPAT binding (B-max = 118 fmol/mg). However, in sharp contrast to the membrane-bound receptor which was negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase, agonist treatment of the solubilized and reconstituted receptor resulted in an increase in adenylate cyclase. This change in receptor-adenylate cyclase coupling following reshuffling of membrane lipids during solubilization and reconstitution suggested that membrane lipids could have a profound effect on receptor-effector coupling. To study the effect of membrane lipid composition on receptor-mediated signal transduction in a stabler and more natural system, neural cells derived from different parts of the brain (hippocampus, HN2; CNS, NCB-20; dorsal root ganglion, F-11) and a non-neural cell Line (CHO), all with differing membrane lipid compositions, were selected. Since no known cell line contains the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor (5-HT1A-R), stable transfection of the selected cell lines with a DNA construct encoding the human 5-HT1A-R was carried out and this resuited in a late increase of [H-3] 8-OH-DPAT binding in the stationary phase only in the cell lines of neural origin. In the non-neural cell line (CHO), which also displayed marked difference in membrane lipids, the receptor was positively coupled to the phospholipase C-IP3-[Ca2+](i) cascade. Even though G(PLC) was present in the NCB-20 and F-11 cells as evidenced by a bradykinin receptor-mediated increase in inositol phosphates in these cells 8-OH-DPAT treatment resulted in no change in phospholipase C in any of the cell lines of neural origin. The transfected receptor was negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase in all the transfectants. Unlike the time-dependent expression of the receptor, there was no difference in expression of membrane lipids between early and,late stages of cell growth. However, the presence of the transfected receptor led to an increase in G(D1a) ganglioside in the NCB-20 and F-11 cell lines but not in the HN2 or CHO cells. This suggests the presence of a 5-HT1a-R mediated process leading to either stimulation of synthesis or inhibition of metabolism of ganglioside G(D1a).

