Marcoli, M., et al. (2006). "Nitric oxide-evoked glutamate release and cGMP production in cerebellar slices: control by presynaptic 5-HT1D receptors." Neurochem Int 49(1): 12-19.

	We previously reported that pre- and postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors effectively control glutamatergic transmission in adult rat cerebellum. To investigate where 5-HT acts in the glutamate ionotropic receptors/nitric oxide/guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) pathway, in the present study 5-HT modulation of the cGMP response to the nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-penicillamine (SNAP) was studied in adult rat cerebellar slices. While cGMP elevation produced by high-micromolar SNAP was insensitive to 5-HT, 1 microM SNAP, expected to release nitric oxide in the low-nanomolar concentration range, elicited cGMP production and endogenous glutamate release both of which could be prevented by activating presynaptic 5-HT1D receptors. Released nitric oxide appeared responsible for cGMP production and glutamate release evoked by 1 microM SNAP, as both the effects were mimicked by the structurally unrelated nitric oxide donor 2-(N,N-diethylamino)-diazenolate-2-oxide (0.1 microM). Dependency of the 1 microM SNAP-evoked release of glutamate on external Ca2+, sensitivity to presynaptic release-regulating receptors and dependency on ionotropic glutamate receptor functioning, suggest that nitric oxide stimulates exocytotic-like, activity-dependent glutamate release. Activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors/nitric oxide synthase/guanylyl cyclase pathway by endogenously released glutamate was involved in the cGMP response to 1 microM SNAP, as blockade of NMDA/non-NMDA receptors, nitric oxide synthase or guanylyl cyclase, abolished the cGMP response. To conclude, in adult rat cerebellar slices low-nanomolar exogenous nitric oxide could facilitate glutamate exocytotic-like release possibly from parallel fibers that subsequently activated the glutamate ionotropic receptors/nitric oxide/cGMP pathway. Presynaptic 5-HT1D receptors could regulate the nitric oxide-evoked release of glutamate and subsequent cGMP production.

