Li, H. Q., et al. (2018). "Optimization of maintenance therapy of Risperidone with CYP2D6 genetic polymorphisms through an extended translational framework-based prediction of target occupancies/clinical outcomes." Pharmacological Research 137: 135-147.

	Risperidone, one of the second-generation antipsychotics, can efficiently target dopamine HT2A and serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. There actually exists significant implication of CYP2D6 genetic polymorphisms on the metabolic kinetics of risperidone, little is known about the extent of CYP2D6 impacting human D2 and 5-HT2A receptor occupancies as well as the clinical efficacy and efficacy in schizophrenia treatment. Here we assessed the influences of CYP2D6 gene polymorphisms on human target occupancies/clinical outcomes and optimized the maintenance therapy of risperidone. A translational framework, previously developed using in vitro and in vivo information in rats, was used as the basis for integrating the effects of CYP2D6 genetic polymorphisms on target occupancies and clinical outcomes. HT2A occupancy as a biomarker was related to Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) response and Simpson Angus Scale (SAS). The population approach was applied to characterize pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) profiles of risperidone. Non-compartment analysis method was performed to calculate the steady state PK/PD parameters of both risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone. The predictive power of this extended translational framework was determined by comparing the predictions of target occupancies and clinical outcomes with the reported human values of risperidone at clinically suggested dosage of 4.0 mg/day. This extended translational framework was adequately used to predict human target occupancies and clinical outcomes. At the steady state, D-2 ROs were 75.8%, 79.3% and 86.0% for CYP2D6 poor metabolizer (PM), intermediate metabolizer (IM) and extensive metabolizer (EM), respectively; 5-HT2A ROs were 96.4%, 97.2% and 98.4% for CYP2D6 PM, IM and EM, respectively; PANSS changes from placebo were -5.3, -7.7 and -11.3 for CYP2D6 PM, IM and EM, respectively; SAS changes from placebo were 0.13, 0.15 and 0.18 for CYP2D6 PM, IM and EM, respectively. The predictions of human HT2A, 5-HT2A RO, PANSS and SAS changes for risperidone with CYP2D6 genetic polymorphisms were well in line with the reported values in clinic. 5.0, 4.0 and 2.5 mg/day were the equivalent dosages of risperidone for CYP2D6 PM, IM and EM, respectively. The optimized maintenance therapy of risperidone was provided through the Three-Step method and the dosage range was 2.5-5.0 mg/day for three CYP2D6 gene groups in the present study. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that this extended translational framework not only differentiates the effects of CYP2D6 genetic polymorphisms on target occupancies and clinical outcomes, but also constitutes a scientific basis to optimize the maintenance therapy of neuropsychiatric patients in clinic.

