Lalley, P. M., et al. (1994). "5-HT-1A receptor-mediated modulation of medullary expiratory neurones in the cat." J Physiol 476(1): 117-130.

	The involvement of the 5-HT-1A receptor in serotoninergic responses of stage 2 expiratory (E-2) neurones was investigated in pentobarbitone-anaesthetized, mechanically ventilated cats. The specific agonist of the 5-HT-1A receptor, 8-hydroxy-diproplaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT), administered systemically or by ionophoresis directly on to the neurones, had a clear depressant effect. Administration of 8-OH-DPAT at doses of 10-50 micrograms kg-1 (I.V.) increased the membrane hyperpolarizations of E-2 neurones during the inspiratory and postinspiratory phases, and shortened their duration of activity in association with shortening of phrenic nerve activity. Discharges of E-2 neurones were also less intense. At doses of 50-90 micrograms kg-1, 8-OH-DPAT reduced or abolished inspiratory hyperpolarizations, and reduced expiratory depolarizations of membrane potential and discharge in parallel with inhibition of phrenic nerve discharges. The effects of the larger doses were reversed by I.V. injection of NAN-190, an antagonist at the 5-HT-1A receptor. Dose-dependent effects on the membrane potential and discharge of E-2 neurones, but not on phrenic nerve activity, were also seen by ionophoretic administration of 8-OH-DPAT on to E-2 neurones. At low currents, ejection of 8-OH-DPAT hyperpolarized the neurones without affecting the duration of inspiratory hyperpolarization and expiratory depolarization. This hyperpolarization depressed the intensity and the duration of expiratory discharges. Ejection with larger currents hyperpolarized the E-2 neurones further, and depressed expiratory depolarization leading to blockade of expiratory discharges. The effects on membrane potential were accompanied by decreased neuronal input resistance. This depressed the excitability of E-2 neurones as tested by discharge evoked by intracellular current injection. The amplitudes of action potentials decreased in parallel with the changes in input resistance. The effects were attributed to a postsynaptic effect of 8-OH-DPAT leading to a gradually developing inhibition by activation of 5-HT-1A receptors. Hyperventilatory apnoea depressed on-going synaptic activity and unmasked the effect of ionophoretically applied 8-OH-DPAT. The responses of the E-2 neurone were enhanced, as evidenced by increased membrane hyperpolarization and greater reduction of input resistance. Both responses faded appreciably, indicating receptor desensitization. The degree and rate of apparent desensitization depended on the dose/ejecting current. The greater sensitivity and faster desensitization to 8-OH-DPAT were attributed to the hyperventilatory alkalinization of the extracellular fluid, which might influence agonist binding to 5HT-1A receptors and/or receptor properties.

