Lecci, A., et al. (1992). "INVOLVEMENT OF 5-HYDROXYTRYPTAMINE-1A RECEPTORS IN THE MODULATION OF MICTURITION REFLEXES IN THE ANESTHETIZED RAT." Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics 262(1): 181-189.

	Intravenous administration of the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and of a low doses of buspirone elicited the supraspinal micturition reflex (SMR) in urethane-anesthetized rats when the urinary bladder was filled with just a subthreshold volume of saline (threshold conditions). The effect of i.v. 8-OH-DPAT was abolished by hexamethonium or spiroxatrine. When SMR was elicited by bladder distension (suprathreshold conditions), i.v. 8-OH-DPAT increased the frequency of bladder contractions. In threshold conditions, stimulation of SMR was also induced by i.c.v. or by i.t. administration of 8-OH-DPAT and 5-HT but not by topical application of 8-OH-DPAT onto the bladder. Guanethidine pretreatment, which produced detrusor hyperreflexia, antagonized the effect of both i.c.v. and i.t. 8-OH-DPAT. In rats treated with capsaicin as adults, the response to 8-OH-DPAT was unchanged. In rats treated with capsaicin as newborns, instead, the response to i.t. 8-OH-DPAT was abolished and that to i.c.v. 8-OH-DPAT was shifted to higher doses. Pretreatment with 5,7-dihyroxytryptamine did not affect the response to i.t. 8-OH-DPAT but shifted to higher doses the response to i.c.v 8-OH-DPAT. Intravenous administration of spiroxatrine, methysergide, NAN-190 {1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phtalimido)butyl]piperazine} or high doses of buspirone but not of 1-sulpiride inhibited SMR in suprathreshold conditions. The inhibitory effect of spiroxatrine, NAN-190 and buspirone was not reduced by guanethidine pretreatment. In chronically spinalized animals, i.v. 8-OH-DPAT increased the amplitude of the reflex bladder contractions induced by bladder distension. Present results suggest that 5-HT1A receptors located both at spinal and at supraspinal level modulate the excitability of the SMR.

