Kulikov, A. V., et al. (2009). Different Effect of Thyroxine on Behavior and the Brain Serotonin Receptors of Catalepsy-Prone and Catalepsy-Resistant Mouse Strains. Hauppauge, Nova Science Publishers, Inc.

	Thyroid hormones are used for treatment of patients with depressive disorders. In order to find genetic and molecular factors defining the sensitivity to thyroid hormones, the effects of chronic thyroxine (T4) treatment (2 mg/l, 60 days, in drinking water) on locomotor activity, anxiety-related, depressive-like behavior and freezing reaction (catalepsy) as well as on the 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A serotonin receptors in the brain were investigated in catalepsy-resistant AKR/J and catalepsy-prone ASC/Icg (Antidepressant Sensitive Catalepsy) strains. The latter was selectively bred for the high predisposition to catalepsy from intercross between CBA/Lac and AKR/J parental strains. In AKR mice T4 increased predisposition to catalepsy and locomotion in the open field test compared with the respective controls, but did not affect forced swim immobility. In contrast, in ASC mice T4 significantly decreased predisposition to catalepsy and immobility time in the forced swim test without any effect on locomotion in the open field. No influence of T4 on anxiety-related behavior in mice of these strains was shown. T4 treatment significantly increased head-twitch response to 5-HT2A receptor agonist, DOI (1 mg/kg, ip) and the receptor mRNA level in the cortex in AKR, but not in ASC mice. Although the hormone did not affect 5-HT1A receptor mRNA level in the hippocampus and midbrain of ASC mice, a marked attenuation of hypothermic effect of 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg, ip) in the T4-treated ASC was found. It was suggested that the cortical 5-HT2A receptor mediated the T4-induced activation of locomotion, while the 5-HT1A receptor was involved in the anticataleptic and antidepressant effects of the hormone. The results indicate that hereditary predisposition to catalepsy can predict behavioral effect of chronic T4 treatment in mice.

