Kshama, D., et al. (1990). "Modulation of baseline behavior in rats by putative serotonergic agents in three ethoexperimental paradigms." Behav Neural Biol 54(3): 234-253.

	The present study adopts an ethoexperimental approach to examine the deportment subsequent to alteration in serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission following treatment with site-specific neuropharmacological probes. The impact of perturbation in (5-HT) neurotransmission on baseline behavior was analyzed employing three animal models of anxiety, i.e., hole-board, elevated plus maze, and bright/dark arena. Inbred male rats (Wistar strain, weighing between 150 and 200 g) were used in this study. The vivarium and the behavioral laboratory were specially designed to permit operation of reversed light-dark cycle and all experiments were performed during the dark period. Pharmacological tools selected to influence 5-HT levels include (1) a combination of tranylcypromine and tryptophan (TCP + TRYPT) (0.75 mg/kg + 40 mg/kg) which augments 5-HT biosynthesis; (2) p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA: 200 mg/kg), an inhibitor of 5-HT biosynthesis; and (3) 5-HT reuptake blockers, namely zimelidine (ZIM) (40 mg/kg) and fluoxetine (FLU) (10 mg/kg). Rats under the influence of PCPA exhibited anxiolytic response, whereas those under treatments to raise 5-HT levels, viz., TCP + TRYPT, ZIM and FLU, displayed anxiogenic-like reactions. Several other agents known to specifically interact with 5-HT receptor subtypes were also tested. 5-HT2 receptor stimulants, such as quipazine (5 mg/kg) and MK 212 (0.5 mg/kg), were found to be anxiogenic. Buspirone (2 mg/kg), a 5-HT1 agonist, surmounted normal behavioral inhibition. However, another 5-HT1 stimulant, 8-OH-DPAT (0.025 mg/kg), had anxiogenic action. Pretreatment with 5-HT3 antagonists [zacopride (2 mg/kg) and GR 38032F (0.1 mg/kg)] and putative 5-HT1 antagonist [propranolol (10 mg/kg)] resulted in borderline disinhibition of normal behavioral inhibition to novel environments. In contrast, cyproheptadine (0.5 mg/kg), a 5-HT2 antagonist, provoked anxiogenic-like behavior. Altogether, uniform results were obtained for each probe in all the three models, suggesting that the battery of anxiety tests chosen in this study is reliable and sensitive to detect unknown pharmacological responses. The results support the hypothesis that stimulation of serotonergic neurotransmission heightens normal anxiety, whereas its blockade releases normal behavioral inhibition. Furthermore, this work establishes the validity of using the three paradigms in evaluating the involvement of multiple neurotransmitter receptors in the control of behavior of rodents under natural circumstances and also detects any aberration following exposure to novelty and stress.

