Kahsai, L., et al. (2012). "Distribution of metabotropic receptors of serotonin, dopamine, GABA, glutamate, and short neuropeptide F in the central complex of Drosophila." Neuroscience 208: 11-26.

	The central complex is a prominent set of midline neuropils in the insect brain, known to be a higher locomotor control center that integrates visual inputs and modulates motor outputs. It is composed of four major neuropil structures, the ellipsoid body (EB), fan-shaped body (FB), noduli (NO), and protocerebral bridge (PB). In Drosophila different types of central complex neurons have been shown to express multiple neuropeptides and neurotransmitters; however, the distribution of corresponding receptors is not known. Here, we have mapped metabotropic, G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) of several neurotransmitters to neurons of the central complex. By combining immunocytochemistry with GAL4 driven green fluorescent protein, we examined the distribution patterns of six different GPCRs: two serotonin receptor subtypes (5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(7)), a dopamine receptor (DopR), the metabotropic GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B)R), the metabotropic glutamate receptor (DmGluR(A)) and a short neuropeptide F receptor (sNPFR1). Five of the six GPCRs were mapped to different neurons in the EB (sNPFR1 was not seen). Different layers of the FB express DopR, GABA(B)R, DmGluR(A,) and sNPFR1, whereas only GABA(B)R and DmGluR(A) were localized to the PB. Finally, strong expression of DopR and DmGluR(A) was detected in the NO. In most cases the distribution patterns of the GPCRs matched the expression of markers for their respective ligands. In some nonmatching regions it is likely that other types of dopamine and serotonin receptors or ionotropic GABA and glutamate receptors are expressed. Our data suggest that chemical signaling and signal modulation are diverse and highly complex in the different compartments and circuits of the Drosophila central complex. The information provided here, on receptor distribution, will be very useful for future analysis of functional circuits in the central complex, based on targeted interference with receptor expression.

