King, G. R., et al. (1999). "Blockade of accumbens 5-HT3 receptor down-regulation by ondansetron administered during continuous cocaine administration." Eur J Pharmacol 364(2-3): 79-87.

	The present experiment examined whether ondansetron, co-administered with continuous cocaine, would block the down regulation of accumbens 5-HT3 receptors. Rats were exposed to a 14-day pretreatment regimen that involved the continuous infusion of 40 mg kg(-1) day(-1) cocaine or 0.9% saline via a subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipump. In addition to the continuous cocaine or saline administration, all subjects received daily subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of either vehicle or 0.1 mg kg(-1) ondansetron for the entire 14-day pretreatment regimen. The rats were then withdrawn from this pretreatment regimen for seven days, and slices from the nucleus accumbens obtained. The slices were perfused with 25 mM K+ in the absence and presence of 0, 12.5, 25, or 50 mu M m-Chlorophenyl-biguanide HCl (mCPBG). The efflux samples were assayed for dopamine content by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. Continuous cocaine administration significantly attenuated the ability of mCPBG to facilitate K+-induce dopamine overflow compared to saline control rats. In addition, the rats that received ondansetron and cocaine during the 14-day pretreatment period, the ability of mCPBG to enhance K+ stimulated dopamine release was not-significantly different from the saline control subjects. For all groups except the cocaine alone group, the effects of mCPBG on K+ stimulated dopamine release were Ca2+ dependent, suggesting that these effects are receptor mediated. These results suggest that continuous cocaine administration functionally down-regulates 5-HT3 receptors in the nucleus accumbens, and that this down-regulation can be blocked by chronic ondansetron administration. Hence, a functional down regulation of accumbens 5-HT3 receptors represents a significant contribution to the tolerance induced by continuous cocaine administration. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

