Lian, J., et al. (2015). "Chronic betahistine co-treatment reverses olanzapine's effects on dopamine D₂ but not 5-HT2A/2C bindings in rat brains." Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry 56: 75-80.

	Olanzapine is widely prescribed for treating schizophrenia and other mental disorders, although it leads to severe body weight gain/obesity. Chronic co-treatment with betahistine has been found to significantly decrease olanzapine-induced weight gain; however, it is not clear whether this co-treatment affects the therapeutic effects of olanzapine. This study investigated the effects of chronic treatment of olanzapine and/or betahistine on the binding density of the serotonergic 5-HT2A (5-HT2AR) and 5-HT2C (5-HT2CR) receptors, 5-HT transporter (5-HTT), and dopaminergic D₂ receptors (D₂R) in the brain regions involved in antipsychotic efficacy, including the prefrontal cortex (PFC), cingulate cortex (Cg), nucleus accumbens (NAc), and caudate putamen (CPu). Rats were treated with olanzapine (1 mg/kg, t.i.d.) or vehicle for 3.5 weeks, and then olanzapine treatment was withdrawn for 19 days. From week 6, the two groups were divided into 4 groups (n=6) for 5 weeks' treatment: (1) olanzapine-only (1 mg/kg, t.i.d.), (2) betahistine-only (9.6 mg/kg, t.i.d.), (3) olanzapine and betahistine co-treatment (O+B), and (4) vehicle. Compared to the control, the olanzapine-only treatment significantly decreased the bindings of 5-HT2AR, 5-HT2CR, and 5-HTT in the PFC, Cg, and NAc. Similar changes were observed in the rats receiving the O+B co-treatment. The olanzapine-only treatment significantly increased the D₂R binding in the Cg, NAc, and CPu, while the betahistine-only treatment reduced D₂R binding. The co-treatment of betahistine reversed the D₂R bindings in the NAc and CPu that were increased by olanzapine. Therefore, chronic O+B co-treatment has similar effects on serotonin transmission as the olanzapine-only treatment, but reverses the D₂R that is up-regulated by chronic olanzapine treatment. The co-treatment maintains the therapeutic effects of olanzapine but decreases/prevents the excess weight gain.

