Kotanska, M., et al. (2018). "Idalopirdine, a selective 5-HT6 receptor antagonist, reduces food intake and body weight in a model of excessive eating." Metab Brain Dis 33(3): 733-740.

	Obesity, from early childhood onwards, is a common societal problem. The overconsumption of sweet, salty and high-fat products are the main factors that cause excessive weight gain. It is therefore necessary to search for new drugs that affect satiety centers and reduce the sense of hunger and caloric intake. It has been suggested that the blockade of 5-HT6 receptors may reduce food intake, and since idalopirdine is a clinically tested, selective 5HT6 receptor antagonist, it was chosen to be examined in animal models of obesity. The activity of idalopirdine was measured in the rat model of excessive eating. Animals were on a high caloric diet that consisted of milk chocolate with nuts, cheese, salted peanuts and condensed milk. During a four-week experiment, the rats had constant access to standard feed and water ad libitum. Idalopirdine was administered intraperitoneally at a dose 5 mg/kg b.w./day. To establish whether idalopirdine would effectively suppress the rebound hyperphagia that accompanies refeeding, it was administered after a 20 h food deprivation period. Pica behavior was evaluated after the administration of idalopirdine to confirm that the suppression of food intake was not caused by visceral illness. The effect of the four-week treatment with idalopirdine on the amount of peritoneal adipose tissue, and on lipid and carbohydrate profiles in rats was also examined. The statistical significance was calculated using the one-way ANOVA post-hoc Tukey Multiple Comparison Test or the two-way ANOVA post-hoc Bonferroni Multiple Comparison Test. Idalopirdine significantly reduced caloric intake and prevented the development of obesity in tested animals. Rats, that received idalopirdine, had a smaller amount of adipose tissue in the peritoneum as well as lower glucose, triglyceride and cholesterol levels in comparison to the control group. Moreover, an anorectic action was not caused by abnormalities of the gastrointestinal tract, such as nausea. The obtained results indicate that idalopirdine reduces caloric intake and could be considered for further tests as a potential treatment of obesity.

