Martini, C., et al. (2004). "Serotonin-mediated phosphorylation of extracellular regulated kinases in platelets of patients with panic disorder versus controls." Neurochemistry International 44(8): 627-639.

	Phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK 1/2) represents a converging intracellular signalling pathway which is involved in the modulation of gene transcription and may contribute to the feed-back regulation of neurotransmitter receptor functioning. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the serotonin-mediated phosphorylation of ERK 1/2 in platelets from patients (n=17) with panic disorder, with respect to healthy volunteers (n=17). Patients presented a severe symptomatology as assessed by the self-report rating scales for panic-agoraphobic (PAS-SR) and mood (MOOD-SR) spectrum, and by Clinical Global Impression Severity Scale (CGI-S). In platelets from healthy volunteers, serotonin induced a rapid increase of ERK 1/2 phosphorylation with a transient monophasic kinetic. The dose-response curves showed this effect was concentration dependent with an average of the EC50 value of 22.8+/-2.4 muM. Platelet pre-incubation with 5HT(1A) and 5HT(2A) antagonists, pindobind and ritanserin, significantly inhibited serotonin-mediated kinase activation with an EC50 of 3.2+/-0.2 and 1.99+/-0.08 nM, respectively, suggesting an involvement of these specific receptor subtypes in serotonin-mediated response. Furthermore, the 5HT(1A) and 5HT(2A) agonists, 8-hydroxy-N,N-dipropyl-aminotetralin (8OH-DPAT) and 1-(2,5-dimethoxy)-4-iodophenyl-2-aminopropane (DOI), were able to modulate ERK 1/2 phosphorylation in a concentration-dependent manner with an EC50 value of 3.1+/-0.2 and 76+/-4.5 nM, respectively. ERK 1/2 phosphorylation was not observed after serotonin treatment of platelets from drug-free panic disorder patients, suggesting an alteration in intracellular phosphorylative pathways. Since ERK 1/2 responsiveness to other stimulus, such as collagen and thrombin, was comparable in platelets from healthy volunteers and patients, our results suggested that a specific alteration of serotonergic system occurred in panic disorder. Further studies to investigate 5HT(1A) and 5HT(2A) receptor expression and threonine phosphorylation levels showed that, nevertheless no significant differences in the receptor expression levels were detected, an increase of both 5HT receptor phosphorylation, on threonine residues, occurred in platelet from panic patients with respect to controls, suggesting that a reduction of serotonin receptor functioning was involved in the loss of serotonin responsiveness in panic. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

