Meijer, O. C., et al. (2000). "Transcriptional repression of the 5-HT1A receptor promoter by corticosterone via mineralocorticoid receptors depends on the cellular context." Journal of Neuroendocrinology 12(3): 245-254.

	The diverse effects of the corticosteroid hormones are, mediated in large measure by the mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors, two closely related members of the nuclear receptor superfamily. In the brain, corticosteroids regulate neuronal excitability and responses to neurotransmitters in a cell type-specific manner. The 5-HT1A receptor, for example, is highly expressed in the hippocampus and raphe but transcription is repressed by corticosterone (the principal glucocorticoid in rodents) only in hippocampus. We have used transient transfection of cultured cells to study the transcriptional regulation of the 5-HT1A receptor promoter by activators and repression by glucocorticoids. We find that transcription factors Sp1 and NF-kappa B subunit p65, both of which are coexpressed in hippocampus with the 5-HT1A receptor in vivo, synergistically activate a reporter driven by receptor 5'-flanking region. Primer extension data suggest that the multiple transcription initiation sites used in reporter gene transcription correlate with those used in transcription of the endogenous gene which has a TATA-less promoter. Repression of transcription by corticosteroids was found to be mediated by both mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors, but not identically. While glucocorticoid receptors potently inhibited both p65- and p65/Sp1-stimulated transcription, repression via mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) depended on the transcriptional activators that were present: p65-stimulated reporter activity was not repressed via MR, whereas a similar level of transcription resulting from synergistic activation by p65/Sp1-stimulation was repressed via MR. The context-dependence of these MR-mediated effects provides a model for the cell-type and state-dependent actions of corticosterone in the brain.

