Leung, K. (2004). N-[2-[4-(3-Cyanopyridin-2-yl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl]-3-[(11)C]methoxybenzamide. Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD). Bethesda (MD), National Center for Biotechnology Information (US).

	Dopamine, a neurotransmitter, plays an important role in the mediation of movement, cognition, and emotion (1, 2). Dopamine receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and schizophrenia (3). Five subtypes of dopamine receptors, D1-5, have been well characterized pharmacologically and biochemically (4). These five subtypes have been classified into two subfamilies of D1-like (D1, D5) and D2-like (D2, D3, D4) dopamine receptors. D1-Like and D2-like receptors exert synergistic as well as opposite effects at the biochemical and overall system levels. A great majority of striatal D1 and D2/3 receptors are localized postsynaptically on the caudate-putamen neurons, and to a lesser extent presynaptically on nigrostriatal axons. On the other hand, D4 receptors are mostly found in the extrastriatal regions of the brain, such as the cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, and medulla. These areas are believed to control emotion and cognition. In addition to D2 receptors, D4 receptors may play an important role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, as suggested by clinical studies of the atypical neuroleptic clozapine in patients (5, 6). Clozapine is not only effective against positive symptoms of schizophrenia, but it is also efficacious against the negative symptoms. Clozapine has a 10-fold greater affinity for D4 receptors than for D2 receptors (7). However, it also has high affinities for 5-HT1A,1B,2A,2C,6,7, alpha1A,2A,2C, muscarinic M1, and histamine H1 receptors. The neurophysiological role of D4 receptors remains to be defined. Thus, there is a need for selective ligands to investigate the pharmacological role of D4 receptors. There have been several attempts to develop specific D4 radioligands for use with positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of D4 receptors (8-10). However, none has proved suitable because of a lack of selectivity, extremely low D4 receptor density in the brain, and other pharmacological issues. Lacivita et al. (11) reported that N-[2-[4-(3-cyanopyridin-2-yl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl]-3-methoxybenzamide (compound 7) is a potent inhibitor (agonist) of D4 receptors, with >100-fold selectivity over D2 and D3 receptors. This led to the development of N-[2-[4-(3-cyanopyridin-2-yl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl]-3-[(11)C]methoxybenzamide ([(11)C]7) as a potential D4 receptor radioligand for use with PET imaging of D4 receptors in the brain.

