Advani, T., et al. (2007). "Effect of early rearing conditions on alcohol drinking and 5-HT1A receptor function in C57BL/6J mice." Int J Neuropsychopharmacol 10(5): 595-607.

	We have evaluated in C57BL/6J mice the effect of maternal separation and post-weaning social isolation on ethanol intake, and on serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptor function at the level of receptor-G protein interaction in the hippocampus and dorsal raphe nucleus. From postnatal days 2-14, litters were separated from the mother for 15 min (Handled) or for 180 min (Maternal separation). After weaning, pups were housed in pairs or in social isolation. At 2 months of age, ethanol intake and preference in mice were assessed using the two-bottle choice paradigm. Maternal separation increased ethanol preference in female mice that were subsequently housed in isolation. By contrast, post-weaning isolation increased ethanol preference and consumption in male mice regardless of pre-weaning rearing conditions. The increased ethanol preference and intake were limited to a 5% (v/v) concentration of ethanol. Our data suggest that adolescent mice are susceptible to the effects of post-weaning social isolation as shown by increased ethanol preference and consumption. Using quantitative autoradiography, 5-HT1A receptor number and function were determined by the binding of [3H]WAY-100635, and by [35S]GTPgammaS binding stimulated by the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT, respectively. The binding experiments were done at approximately 3 months after the end of the two-bottle choice test in an attempt to minimize direct effects of ethanol drinking on 5-HT1A receptor function and number. 5-HT1A receptor-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in the dorsal raphe nucleus was increased in animals reared after weaning in isolation vs. in pairs, regardless of gender or pre-weaning rearing conditions. Our data suggest that there are long-term neurochemical consequences of social isolation of adolescent mice, specifically increased 5-HT1A receptor function in the dorsal raphe nucleus.

