Levy, A. D., et al. (1994). "MONOAMINERGIC REGULATION OF NEUROENDOCRINE FUNCTION AND ITS MODIFICATION BY COCAINE." Front Neuroendocrinol 15(2): 85-156.

	Neuroendocrine pharmacology represents a potentially valuable approach to the assessment of alterations in neuronal function in the brain of human cocaine abusers. Neuroendocrine effects of the monoamine uptake inhibitor cocaine have predominantly been examined in laboratory animals. These preclinical studies may help to identify the optimal challenge tests to be performed in clinical studies. In laboratory animals, acute administration of cocaine activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, via actions on serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons in the brain. Cocaine also reduces prolactin secretion, probably by dopaminergic mechanisms, although the necessary studies to confirm this hypothesis have not been performed. Cocaine also reduces renin secretion, and increases vasopressin and luteinizing hormone secretion, by mechanisms which have not been clearly established. The adrenocorticotropin, corticosterone, prolactin, and renin responses to cocaine are generally unaltered by prior cocaine exposure, suggesting that tolerance or sensitization to the endocrine effects of cocaine does not occur. However, several studies have determined that prior cocaine exposure alters the serotonergic regulation of hormone secretion. Chronic cocaine exposure reduces some of the hormone responses to the serotonin (5-HT) releasers p-chloroamphetamine and d-fenfluramine, suggesting deficits in the functional status of serotonergic nerve terminals. Additionally, repeated cocaine exposure produces subsensitive 5-HT1A-mediated hormone responses, and supersensitive 5-HT2-mediated responses. Alterations in dopaminergic- or noradrenergic-mediated hormone responses have not been examined in animals chronically exposed to cocaine. Endocrine studies in human cocaine abusers have largely examined basal hormone levels or the hormone responses to cocaine. Strong conclusions from these studies are limited because (1) many neuronal and nonneuronal systems regulate secretion of each hormone, so that alterations in basal hormone levels cannot be attributed to only one neurotransmitter; and (2) hormone responses to cocaine cannot he examined in cocaine-naive subjects due to ethical considerations, making it impossible to determine whether the response in cocaine abusers is abnormal. It may be more beneficial for studies in cocaine abusers to examine the hormone responses to drugs that specifically affect monoaminergic neurons and compare the data with cocaine-naive individuals. (C) 1994 Academic Press, Inc.

