Béïque, J., et al. (2000). "Effects of sustained administration of the serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine: I. in vivo electrophysiological studies in the rat." Neuropharmacology 39(10): 1800-1812.

	The effect of a 21-day treatment with the dual 5-HT and NE reuptake blocker venlafaxine (delivered s.c. by osmotic minipumps) was assessed on the time required for a 50% recovery (RT(50)) of the firing activity of dorsal hippocampus CA(3) pyramidal neurons from the suppression induced by microiontophoretic applications of 5-HT and NE. The RT(50) values for 5-HT were increased by both 10 and 40 mg/kg/day regimens of venlafaxine, whereas those for NE were increased only by the 40 mg/kg/day regimen, indicative of a greater potency of venlafaxine in blocking 5-HT reuptake. The sensitivity of the postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) and alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors was altered by neither regimen of venlafaxine. Using a paradigm by which the 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100635 can induce a disinhibition of firing activity of CA(3) pyramidal neurons, it was demonstrated that the high, but not the low, dose of venlafaxine led to an enhanced tonic activation of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors in the dorsal hippocampus. The duration of the suppressant effect of the firing activity of CA(3) hippocampus pyramidal neurons produced by the electrical stimulation of the ascending 5-HT pathway was significantly reduced when the frequency of the stimulation was enhanced from 1 Hz to 5 Hz in control rats and in rats treated with 10 mg/kg/day, but not with 40 mg/kg/day of venlafaxine. Hence, venlafaxine induced a desensitization of the terminal 5-HT(1B) autoreceptor only at the high dose. A 2-day treatment with 10 mg/kg/day of venlafaxine induced a suppression of the firing activity of 5-HT neurons of the dorsal raphe. The firing activity of these neurons was back to control level in rats that had been treated for 21 days with the same dose of venlafaxine. The suppressant effect of the i.v. administration of the 5-HT autoreceptor agonist LSD on the firing activity of dorsal raphe 5-HT neurons was reduced in rats that had been treated for 21 days with 10 mg/kg/day of venlafaxine. A 2-day treatment with 40 mg/kg/day of venlafaxine, unlike the 10 mg/kg/day regimen, induced a marked suppression of the firing activity of locus coeruleus NE neurons. However, in contrast to 5-HT neurons, NE neurons did not recover their firing activity after a 21-day treatment. Taken together, the results from this study indicate that the low dose of venlafaxine blocked selectively the reuptake of 5-HT, whereas the high dose blocked the reuptake of both 5-HT and NE. Moreover, an enhancement of serotonergic neurotransmission by venlafaxine was only achieved under conditions whereby the desensitization of the terminal 5-HT(1B) autoreceptor is appended to that of the somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptor.

