Martinez-Esparza, J., et al. (2001). "New 1-aryl-3-(4-arylpiperazin-1-yl)propane derivatives, with dual action at 5-HT1A serotonin receptors and serotonin transporter, as a new class of antidepressants." Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 44(3): 418-428.

	In a search toward new and efficient antidepressants, 1-aryl-3-(4-arylpiperazin-1-yl)propane derivatives were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for 5-HT reuptake inhibition and 5-HT1A receptor antagonism. This dual pharmacological profile should lead, in principle, to a rapid and pronounced enhancement in serotoninergic neurotransmission and consequently to a more efficacious treatment of depression. The design was based on coupling structural moieties related to inhibition of serotonin reuptake, such as gamma -phenoxypropylamines, to arylpiperazines, typical 5-HT1A ligands. In binding studies, several compounds showed affinity at the 5-HT transporter and 5-HT1A receptors. Antidepressant-like activity was initially assayed in the forced swimming test with those compounds with K-i ( 200 nM in both binding studies. Functional characterization was performed by measuring the intrinsic effect on rectal temperature in mice and also the antagonism to 8-OH-DPAT-induced hypothermia. The most efficacious compounds (12f, 23gE, 28a, and 28b) were further explored for their ability to antagonize 8-OH-DPAT-induced inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation in a cell line expressing the 5-HT1A receptor. Furthermore, the antidepressant-like properties of 12f, 28a, and 28b, which exhibited 5-HT1A receptor antagonistic property in the latter study, were also evaluated in the learned helplessness test in rats. Among these three compounds, 28b (1-benzo[b]thiophene-3-yl)-3-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-ylpropan-1-ol) showed the higher affinity at both the 5-HT transporter and 5-HT1A receptors (K-i = 20 nM in both cases) and was also active in the other pharmacological tests. Such a pharmacological profile could lead to a new class of antidepressants with a dual mechanism of action and a faster onset of action.

