Lothe, A., et al. (2010). "5-HT1A gene promoter polymorphism and F-18 MPPF binding potential in healthy subjects: a PET study." Behavioral and Brain Functions 6: 10.

	Background: Previous Positron Emission Tomography (PET) studies of 5-HT1A receptors have shown an influence of several genetic factors, including the triallelic serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region on the binding potential (BPND) of these receptors. The aim of our study was to investigate the relationship between a 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism and the binding potential of another selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, [F-18]MPPF, in healthy subjects. Methods: Thirty-five volunteers, including 23 women, underwent an [F-18] MPPF scan and were genotyped for both the C(-1019) G 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism and the triallelic serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region. We used a simplified reference tissue model to generate parametric images of BPND. Whole brain Statistical Parametric Mapping and raphe nuclei region of interest analyses were performed to look for an association of [F-18] MPPF BPND with the C(-1019) G 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism. Results: Among the 35 subjects, 5-HT1A promoter genotypes occurred with the following frequencies: three G/G, twenty-one G/C, and eleven C/C. No difference of [F-18]MPPF BPND between groups was observed, except for two women who were homozygote carriers for the G allele and showed greater binding potential compared to other age-matched women over the frontal and temporal neocortex. However, the biological relevance of this result remains uncertain due to the very small number of subjects with a G/G genotype. These findings were not modified by excluding individuals carrying the S/S genotype of the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region. Conclusions: We failed to observe an association between the C(-1019) G 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism and [F-18]MPPF binding in healthy subjects. However our data suggest that the small number of women homozygote for the G allele might have greater [F-18]MPPF BPND relative to other individuals. This finding should be confirmed in a larger sample.

