Myers, R. D. and M. F. Lankford (1996). "Suppression of alcohol preference in high alcohol drinking rats - Efficacy of amperozide versus naltrexone." Neuropsychopharmacology 14(2): 139-149.

	The selectively bred high alcohol drinking (HAD) line of rat is considered as a potential model of one type of alcoholism. The purpose of the present experiments was to compare the efficacy of two drugs on the volitional drinking of the HAD rats: the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, amperozide, and a nonselective antagonist of opiate receptors, naltrexone. To determine the pattern of alcohol drinking of the HAD rats, a standard preference test was used in which water was offered with alcohol increased in concentrations from 3% to 30% over 11 days. The maximally preferred concentration of alcohol of each rat was offered for 4 days and ranged from 7% to 20% with a mean intake of 6.9 g/kg per day. Initially 1.0 mg/kg amperozide, 2.5 mg/kg naltrexone, or the saline vehicle were injected twice daily for 4 days at 1600 and 2200 hours. Secondly, 2.0 mg/kg amperozide, 5.0 mg/kg naltrexone, or the saline vehicle were administered also for 4 days. After the drug sequences, alcohol preference tests continued for another 4 days. Whereas the saline vehicle was without effect on drinking, the administration of either drug caused a significant dose-dependent reduction in the daily intake of alcohol by the HAD vats in terms of absolute g/kg and proportion of alcohol to tenter consumed. A comparison of the drinking response to the higher doses of the two drugs showed that amperozide was move efficacious in suppressing alcohol intake than naltrexone. Neither amperozide nor naltrexone exerted any significant effects on food and water intakes or on body weight. These results support the concept of a functional link in the brain between the serotonergic and opioidergic systems postulated to underlie, in part, the aberrant drinking of alcohol. A marked dissociation between the temporal patterns of drinking after naltrexone and amperozide treatment suggests that the opiate receptors mediate the immediate reinforcing effects of alcohol, whereas the more vegetative phenomena underlying addictive properties of alcohol are regulated by 5-HT2A receptors postsynaptic to serotonergic neurons. Finally, the inhibitory actions of both drugs imply that multiple receptor mechanisms within the mesolimbic and other systems in the brain underpin the addictive liability to alcohol.

