Moranta, D., et al. (2009). "Chronic treatment and withdrawal of the cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 modulate the sensitivity of presynaptic receptors involved in the regulation of monoamine syntheses in rat brain." Naunyn-Schmiedebergs Archives of Pharmacology 379(1): 61-72.

	Brain monoamines are involved in many neurochemical and behavioral effects of cannabinoids, but little is known on the regulation of noradrenaline, dopamine, and serotonin (5-HT) synthesis in cannabinoid addiction. This study investigated in rat brain the chronic effects of the potent cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 and of rimonabant-precipitated withdrawal, as well as the sensitivity of synthesis-modulating inhibitory receptors, on the accumulation of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) and 5-HTP after decarboxylase inhibition. Acute WIN (8 mg/kg; 1 h) increased DOPA synthesis in cortex (52%), hippocampus (51%), and cerebellum (56%) and decreased DOPA accumulation in striatum (31%). Acute WIN also decreased the synthesis of 5-HTP in all brain regions (40-53%). Chronic WIN (2-8 mg/kg; 5 days) and/or antagonist-precipitated withdrawal induced tolerance to the acute effects of WIN on the accumulation of DOPA (cortex and striatum) and 5-HTP (all brain regions). The inhibitory effect of clonidine (alpha(2)-agonist; 1 mg/kg) on the accumulation of DOPA (15-41%) and 5-HTP (22-41%) was markedly decreased or abolished after chronic WIN and precipitated withdrawal, mainly in noradrenergic and serotonergic brain regions, which indicated desensitization of alpha(2)-autoreceptors and alpha(2)-heteroreceptors regulating the synthesis of noradrenaline and 5-HT. In WIN-dependent rats (chronic and withdrawal states), the effect of a low dose of (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (5-HT1A agonist; 0.1 mg/kg) on the accumulation of precursor amino acids was markedly potentiated in cerebellum and striatum, indicating the induction of supersensitivity of 5-HT1A-autoreceptors and 5-HT1A-heteroreceptors that regulate the synthesis of 5-HT, noradrenaline, and dopamine in these brain regions. These chronic adaptations in presynaptic receptor function could play a relevant role in cannabinoid addiction.

