Leung, K. (2004). (R,S)-1,2,3,4,10,14b-Hexahydro-2-[(11)C]methylpyrazino(2,1-a)pyrido(2,3-c)(2)benz azepine. Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD). Bethesda (MD), National Center for Biotechnology Information (US).

	Malfunction of the sympathetic nervous system may play a primary role in the pathogenesis of heart diseases. There are two subtypes of alpha-adrenoceptors, alpha1 and alpha2, in the heart. alpha-Adrenoceptors play a backup role for beta1-adrenoceptors (1). The cardiac adrenoceptors are responsible for the regulation of heart rate and myocardial contractility (2). About 15% of cardiac adrenoceptors are alpha1-adrenoceptors. Presynaptic alpha1-adrenoceptors modulate noradrenalin release. alpha1-Adrenoceptors are present predominately in larger blood vessels, whereas alpha2-adrenoceptors are more prominent in smaller blood vessels. Increases in alpha1-adrenoceptor sites are usually observed when the number of beta-adrenoceptors decreases in heart diseases (3). Imaging of the pathologic changes of adrenergic receptors offers a non-invasive assessment of myocardial diseases. In the brain, high densities of alpha2-adrenoceptors are in the hippocampus, amygdala, basal ganglia, cortex, thalamus, hypothalamus, and hypothalamus (4). Changes in alpha2-adrenoceptor function have been implicated in Alzheimer's disease, movement disorders, and depression (4, 5). (R,S)-1,2,3,4,10,14b-Hexahydro-2-methylpyrazino(2,1-a)pyrido(2,3-c) (2)benzazepine (mirtazapine) is active at central alpha2-adrenoceptors with proven clinical efficacy in the treatment of depression [PubMed]. It also is an antagonist to 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 receptors based on in vivo pharmacologic studies in animals (6). However, the antidepressant effects of mirtazapine are attributed primarily to inhibition of alpha2-adrenoceptors (7). Mirtazapine plays a role in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. To clarify any putative changes and to define the anatomical distribution of alpha2-adrenoceptors in vivo, [(11)C]mirtazapine is being developed as a positron emission tomography (PET) agent for the non-invasive study of antidepressant actions on alpha2-adrenoceptors in the brain.

