Michopoulos, V., et al. (2014). "Oestradiol Alters Central 5-HT1A Receptor Binding Potential Differences Related to Psychosocial Stress but not Differences Related to 5-HTTLPR Genotype in Female Rhesus Monkeys." Journal of Neuroendocrinology 26(2): 80-88.

	Social subordination in female macaques represents a well-described model of chronic psychosocial stress. Additionally, a length polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) in the regulatory region of the serotonin (5-HT) transporter (5-HTT) gene (SLC6A4) is present in rhesus macaques, which has been linked to adverse outcomes similar to that described in humans with an analogous 5-HTTLPR polymorphism. The present study determined the effects of social status and the 5-HTTLPR genotype on 5-HT1A receptor binding potential (5-HT1A BPND) in brain regions implicated in emotional regulation and stress reactivity in ovariectomised female monkeys, and then assessed how these effects were altered by 17-oestradiol (E-2) treatment. Areas analysed included the prefrontal cortex [anterior cingulate (ACC); medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC); dorsolateral prefrontal cortex; orbitofrontal prefrontal cortex], amygdala, hippocampus, hypothalamus and raphe nucleui. Positron emission tomography using p-[F-18]MPPF was performed to determine the levels of 5-HT1A BPND under a non-E-2 and a 3-week E-2 treatment condition. The short variant (s-variant) 5-HTTLPR genotype produced a significant reduction in 5-HT1A BPND in the mPFC regardless of social status, and subordinate s-variant females showed a reduction in 5-HT1A BPND within the ACC. Both these effects of 5-HTTLPR were unaffected by E-2. Additionally, E-2 reduced 5-HT1A BPND in the dorsal raphe of all females irrespective of psychosocial stress or 5-HTTLPR genotype. Hippocampal 5-HT1A BPND was attenuated in subordinate females regardless of 5-HTTLPR genotype during the non-E-2 condition, an effect that was normalised with E-2. Similarly, 5-HT1A BPND in the hypothalamus was significantly lower in subordinate females regardless of 5-HTTLPR genotype, an effect reversed with E-2. Taken together, the data indicate that the effect of E-2 on modulation of central 5HT1A BPND may only occur in brain regions that show no 5-HTTLPR genotype-linked control of 5-HT1A binding.

