Metts, A. V., et al. (2019). "Antidepressant medication exposure and 5-HT1A autoreceptor binding in major depressive disorder." Synapse 73(6).

	Objective: We have previously reported higher brain serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) autoreceptor binding in antidepressant-naive patients with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) compared with healthy volunteers, and a decrease in binding in MDD after selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment. This SSRI effect is also present in rodents administered SSRIs chronically. We therefore sought to determine the duration of antidepressant medication effects on 5-HT1A receptor binding after medication discontinuation. Methods: Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with the 5-HT1A receptor radioligand [C-11]WAY-100635 was performed in 66 individuals with current DSM-IV MDD to examine relationships between 5-HT1A binding and time since most recent antidepressant treatment. All subjects were medication-free for at least 2 weeks prior to scanning. Thirty-two additional MDD comparison subjects were antidepressant naive. Results: No differences in [C-11]WAY-100635 binding were observed between antidepressant naive and antidepressant exposed MDD groups in 13 a priori cortical and subcortical regions of interest, including raphe autoreceptors, assessed simultaneously in linear mixed effects models. Furthermore, [C-11]WAY-100635 binding did not correlate with time off antidepressants in the antidepressant exposed patients considering these ROIs. The same results were observed when effects of treatment discontinuation of any psychotropic medication used to treat their depression was examined. Conclusion: These results indicate that any antidepressant-associated downregulation of 5-HT1A autoreceptor binding reverses within 2 weeks of medication discontinuation. Since this effect is hypothesized to mediate the antidepressant action of SSRIs, and perhaps other antidepressants, it suggests that patients who need ongoing treatment may relapse rapidly when medication is discontinued. Moreover, 2 weeks appears to be a sufficiently long washout of antidepressant medications for a reliable measure of illness-related binding levels.

