Lin, C. H., et al. (2001). "Modulation of voltage-dependent calcium currents by serotonin in acutely isolated rat amygdala neurons." Synapse 41(4): 351-359.

	The modulation of voltage-dependent calcium currents (I(Ca)) by serotonin (5-HT) was studied in rat acutely dissociated amygdala neurons using whole-cell patch-clamp recording techniques. 5-HT inhibited I(Ca) in a concentration-dependent manner with a ED50 of approximately 1 microM and a maximal inhibition of approximately 50%. The inhibition was mimicked by the selective 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and was reduced by the 5-HT1A antagonist NAN-190, indicating its mediation by 5-HT1A receptors. Pretreatment of neurons with the alkylating agent N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) or pertussis toxin (PTX) markedly reduced the action of 5-HT. The modulation was partially reversed by strong depolarization and was not seen in cell-attached patches when the agonist was applied outside the recorded patch, suggesting a membrane-delimited, G-protein-mediated signaling pathway. Nimodipine (1 microM) reduced the I(Ca) by approximately 30% without reducing inhibition of current by 5-HT significantly, ruling out L-type channels as the target of modulation. 5-HT-mediated inhibition after exposure to omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CgTX, 1 microM) or omega-agatoxin-IV (omega-AgTX, 200 nM), which blocked 26% and 21% of the total I(Ca), respectively, was significantly decreased, suggesting involvement of the N- and P/Q-type channels. In the combined presence of omega-CgTX and omega-AgTX, 5-HT still caused a small but significant reduction of I(Ca), suggesting a possible involvement of R-type channels. Stimulation of beta-adrenergic receptor with isoproterenol (Iso) or activation of adenylyl cyclase with forskolin resulted in an enhancement of I(Ca). 5-HT caused the same degree of inhibition with or without Iso or forskolin pretreatment. On the other hand, application of 8-OH-DPAT inhibited I(Ca) and blocked Iso- and Sp-cAMPS-induced enhancement. These results provide the first evidence showing a dominant effect of 5-HT-mediated inhibition over Iso-mediated enhancement of I(Ca).

