Morin, N. and T. Di Paolo (2017). mGlu5 Receptors in Parkinson's Disease and MPTP-Lesioned Monkeys: Behavior and Brain Molecular Correlates. Mglu Receptors. R. T. Ngomba, G. DiGiovanni, G. Battaglia and F. Nicoletti: 183-205.

	Glutamate overactivity is well documented in Parkinson's disease (PD) and dyskinesias induced by L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), the gold-standard treatment for this disease. The contribution of metabotropic glutamate receptors type 5 (mGlu5 receptors) in PD and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID) was the topic of investigations in human PD patients and in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) monkeys. Behaviorally, it has been shown that the prototypical mGlu5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) as well as the mGlu5 receptor antagonists 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP) and mavoglurant (AFQ056) acutely attenuated LID in MPTP monkeys. Moreover, a chronic 1-month administration of MPEP to previously drug-naive MPTP monkeys (de novo treatment) attenuated the development of LID. Acute and chronic MPEP treatments of MPTP monkeys maintained the antiparkinsonian effect of L-DOPA. Mavoglurant was also shown in some clinical studies to reduce LID in PD patients. Using the selective mGlu5 receptors ligand [H-3]ABP688, mGlu5 receptor-specific binding was measured by autoradiography in brains slices of normal and PD patients in relation to motor complications associated with an L-DOPA treatment. PD patients with motor complications (either LID or wearing-off) had higher [H-3]ABP688-specific binding compared to those without motor complications and controls in putamen, external and internal globus pallidus. In monkeys with a MPTP lesion and controls, [H-3]ABP688- and [H-3] MPEP-specific bindings were elevated in the striatum of dyskinetic L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys but not in MPTP monkeys without LID compared to controls. The brain molecular correlates of the long-term effect of a 1-month administration of MPEP with L-DOPA that attenuated the development of LID were shown to extend beyond mGlu5 receptors. In the basal ganglia, it has been showed that the L-DOPA-induced changes of NMDA and AMPA ionotropic glutamate receptors as well as mGlu2/mGlu3 receptors were prevented with the addition of MPEP. Moreover, MPEP normalized the L-DOPA-induced changes of dopamine D2 receptors, their associated signaling (ERK and Akt) and neuropeptides (preproenkephalin, preprodynorphin), as well as the serotonin receptors 5-HT2A and 5-HT1B. In conclusion, these results have shown in humans and in a nonhuman primate model of PD reduction of LID with mGlu5 antagonism. In the basal ganglia, LID were associated with changes of various glutamatergic, dopaminergic, and serotoninergic markers that were normalized with adjunct treatment with an mGlu5 antagonist supporting the mGlu5 receptor as a good target for the treatment of LID.

