Miyake, A., et al. (1995). "MOLECULAR-CLONING OF HUMAN 5-HYDROXYTRYPTAMINE(3) RECEPTOR - HETEROGENEITY IN DISTRIBUTION AND FUNCTION AMONG SPECIES." Molecular Pharmacology 48(3): 407-416.

	The 5-hydroxytryptamine(3) receptor 5-HT(3)R has been implicated in gut and cardiac motility and in behavioral disorders. Characteristics of 5-HT(3)Rs appear to be heterogeneous among species, but human 5-HT(3)R cDNA has not been identified. We isolated a cDNA encoding 5-HT(3)R from human hippocampus. The mouse 5-HT(3)R gene has been reported to generate two alternative splicing isoforms that differ by six amino acids. All of our isolated human clones corresponded to the shorter isoform. Amino acid identities with mouse neuroblastoma N1E115 and rat brain 5-HT(3)Rs were 84% for each. Southern blot analysis of human genomic DNA suggested that our cloned transcript encoded a human counterpart for the rodent 5-HT,Rs. This gene was assigned to chromosome 11 using polymerase chain reaction analysis of a human/rodent somatic cell hybrid panel. With the use of Northern blot analysis, 5-HT(3)R transcripts were identified in human small intestine, colon, and brain regions including hippocampus, amygdala, and striatum. In human heart, 5-HT(3)R expression was not detectable even with reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis, although it was detectable in mouse heart. Transfection of COS-1 with human 5-HT(3)R cDNA induced specific binding of the 5-HT(3)R-selective radioligand [H-3]YM060. Human 5-HT(3)R showed typical characteristics of the 5-HT(3)R, but its affinity for the 5-HT(3)R agonist m-chlorophenylbiguanide was much lower than that of rat 5-HT(3)R. When injected with human 5-HT(3)R cRNA, the oocytes responded to 5-HT(3)R agonists with a rapidly developing inward current. The potency of the agonists to induce inward current paralleled that to compete with the radioligand binding, and 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine, a partial agonist for mouse 5-HT(3)R, was a full agonist for human 5-HT(3)R. Our data revealed that the 5-HT(3)R molecule has interspecies differences in both tissue distribution and functional profile.

