Morin, N., et al. (2015). "Effect of a chronic treatment with an mGlu5 receptor antagonist on brain serotonin markers in parkinsonian monkeys." Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology & Biological Psychiatry 56: 27-38.

	In Parkinson's disease (PD) and L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias (LIDs), overactivity of brain glutamate neurotransmission is documented and antiglutamatergic drugs decrease LID. Serotonin (5-HT) receptors and transporter (SERT) are also implicated in LID and we hypothesize that antiglutamatergic drugs can also regulate brain serotoninergic activity. Our aim was to investigate the long-term effect of the prototypal metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu5) receptor antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl) pyridine (MPEP) with L-DOPA on basal ganglia SERT, 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptor levels in monkeys lesionedwith 1-methyl-4-phenyl- 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MPTP monkeys were treated for one month with L-DOPA and developed LID while those treated with L-DOPA andMPEP (10 mg/kg) developed significantly less LID. Normal controls and saline-treated MPTP monkeys were included for biochemical analysis. The MPTP lesion and experimental treatments left unchanged striatal 5-HT concentrations. MPTP lesion induced an increase of striatal 5-HIAA concentrations similar in all MPTP monkeys as compared to controls. [H-3]-8-OH-DPAT and [H-3]-citalopram specific binding levels to 5-HT1A receptors and SERT respectively remained unchanged in the striatum and globus pallidus of all MPTP monkeys compared to controls and no difference was observed between groups of MPTP monkeys. [3H]-ketanserin specific binding to striatal and pallidal 5-HT2A receptors was increased in L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys as compared to controls, saline and L-DOPA + MPEP MPTP monkeys and no difference between the latter groups was observed; dyskinesia scores correlated positively with this binding. In conclusion, reduction of development of LID with MPEP was associated with lower striatal and pallidal 5-HT2A receptors showing that glutamate activity also affects serotoninergic markers. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

