Okamoto, K., et al. (2006). "Contribution of peripheral 5-HT2A or 5-HT3 receptors to Fos expression in the trigeminal spinal nucleus produced by acute injury to the masseter muscle during persistent temporomandibular joint inflammation in rats." Neuroscience 143(2): 597-606.

	We investigated the contribution of peripheral 5-HT2A or 5-HT3 receptors to Fos expression in the trigeminal spinal nucleus (VSP) following acute masseter muscle injury in male rats with or without temporomandibular joint (TMJ) inflammation persisting for 7 days. TMJ inflammation was evoked by an injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Two hours after formalin injection into the masseter muscle produced Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) in several regions of the VSP and upper cervical spinal cord (C2), such as ventrolateral (vI) area of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc)/subnucleus interpolaris (Vi) transition (vI-Vi/Vc), paratrigeminal nucleus (dPa5), middle portion of the Vc (mid-Vc) and Vc/C2 transition (Vc/C2) regions in both groups. Significant increases in the number of Fos-LI were observed in these areas in CFA group compared with non-CFA group. TMJ inflammation alone did not induce a significant level of Fos-LI in the VSP. In order to assess the effect of antagonizing 5-HT2A or 5-HT3 receptors on formal in-induced Fos-LI, rats were pre-treated with local (masseter muscle) administration of ketanserin or tropisetron (0.01, 0.1 mg/rat) 20 min prior to formalin injection. In CFA group, these antagonists given locally reduced the Fos-LI response in the laminae I-II at the mid-Vc and Vc/C2 regions. These antagonists reduced the Fos-LI response in the dPa5, but not in the vI-Vi/Vc region. The Fos-LI response was not affected by i.v. administration of ketanserin (0.01, 0.1 mg/rat) or tropisetron (0.01 mg/rat). In non-CFA group, these antagonists given locally did not reduce the Fos-LI response. These results suggest that peripheral 5-HT2A and 5-HT3 receptors contribute to nociceptive processing in the masseter muscle in TMJ inflammatory conditions. (c) 2006 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

