Nosjean, A., et al. (2002). "Serotonin(3) receptor stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarii activates non-catecholaminergic neurons in the rat ventrolateral medulla." Neuroscience 112(4): 935-949.

	The present study was performed to determine whether or not the increased arterial pressure triggered by 5-HT3 receptor stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarii and underlain by a sympathoexcitation is associated with the activation of ventromedullary cells known to be involved in vascular regulation, i.e. the C1 and A1 catecholaminergic cells. For this purpose, double immunohistochemical labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase and c-fos protein was performed all along the ventrolateral medulla after microinjection of I-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide, a selective and potent 5-HT3 receptor agonist, into the nucleus tractus solitarii of alpha-chloralose/urethane-anaesthetized rats. This treatment produced a significant elevation of arterial pressure (similar to +35 mm Hg). Concomitantly, a significant increase in the number of c-fos expressing neurons was observed in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (+63%), in particular in its most anterior part (+78%), and in the medullary region surrounding the caudal part of the facial nucleus (+91%). Retrograde labeling with gold-horseradish peroxidase complex showed that at least some of these activated c-fos expressing cells project to the spinal cord. However, the number of double-stained neurons, i.e. c-fos and tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons, did not increase at any level of the ventrolateral medulla. In contrast, under the same alpha-chloralose/urethane anesthesia, systemic infusion of sodium nitroprusside appeared to produce a hypotension and a marked increase in the density of such double c-fos and tyrosine hydroxylase expressing cells in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and the caudal medullary region surrounding the caudal part of the facial nucleus. These data indicate that medullary catecholaminergic C1 and A1 neurons are not involved in the pressor effect elicited by 5-HT3 receptor stimulation in the nucleus tractus solitarii. However, this 5-HT3 receptor-mediated effect is clearly associated with the excitation of (non-catecholaminergic) neurons within the pressor region of the ventral medulla. (C) 2002 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

