McBlane, J. W. and S. L. Handley (1994). "EFFECTS OF 2 STRESSORS ON BEHAVIOR IN THE ELEVATED X-MAZE - PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION OF THEIR INTERACTION WITH 8-OH-DPAT." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 116(2): 173-182.

	Effects of water deprivation and restraint were compared in the rat elevated X-maze. Water deprivation for 12-48 h increased corticosterone and had a duration-dependent ''anxiolytic'' effect in the elevated X-maze, increasing the ratio of open/total arm entries (OTR) and the proportion of time spent on the open arms (% time) without affecting total entries. Brain 5HIAA/5HT was increased only after 24 or 48 h deprivation. Restraint for 15 min also increased plasma corticosterone and brain 5HIAA/5HT but had no effect on behaviour in the elevated X-maze when rats were tested immediately afterwards. However, Ih restraint was ''anxiogenic'' in the elevated X-maze immediately after release, reducing OTR and % time, but with a less consistent reduction in total entries; reductions in OTR and % time were still present 24 h later. The 5HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (0.1-0.2 mg/kg), administered 10 min before testing in the elevated X-maze, had ''anxiogenic'' actions in non-stressed rats. The effect of 0.1 mg/kg 8-OH-DPAT was not significantly altered by 24 or 48 h water deprivation but was abolished by restraint for Ih immediately beforehand, despite the ''anxiogenic'' effect of restraint alone. Similar mutual antagonism of 8-OH-DPAT and restraint occurred when the dose of 8-OH-DPAT was increased to 0.2 mg/kg. Twenty-four hours after restraint, restrained rats which had received 8-OH-DPAT (0.1-0.2 mg/kg) still did not show any significant ''anxiogenic effect'' compared with non-restrained vehicle treated controls. Restraint-induced deficits in elevated X-maze exploration may prove a useful model with which to study the pharmacology of depression-related anxiety. However, the effects of the stressors examined, and their interaction with 8-OH-DPAT in the elevated X-maze, appear to depend on the nature of the stressor.

