Ago, Y., et al. (2016). "Involvement of GABAA receptors in 5-HT1A and sigma1 receptor synergism on prefrontal dopaminergic transmission under circulating neurosteroid deficiency." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 233(17): 3125-3134.

	RATIONALE: We previously reported that the fluvoxamine-induced increase in prefrontal dopamine levels is enhanced by adrenalectomy/castration (which results in circulating neurosteroid deficiency), via combined activation of serotonin1A (5-HT1A) and sigma1 receptors. However, the mechanistic details of the interaction between 5-HT1A and sigma1 receptors are unknown. OBJECTIVES: Because most neurosteroids have affinity for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors, in the present study, we examined the involvement of GABAA receptors in this process. RESULTS: Adrenalectomy/castration decreased pentobarbital-induced sleeping time in mice, suggesting that it reduced GABAA receptor function. The GABAA receptor antagonist picrotoxin (1 mg/kg) enhanced the fluvoxamine-induced increase in prefrontal dopamine, but not noradrenaline or serotonin, levels in mice, suggesting that picrotoxin mimicked the effect of adrenalectomy/castration. Picrotoxin also potentiated the increase in prefrontal dopamine levels mediated by co-administration of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist osemozotan and the sigma1 receptor agonist (+)-SKF-10,047, while it did not affect the co-administration-induced changes in noradrenaline and serotonin levels. Conversely, the GABAA receptor agonist diazepam (1 mg/kg) blocked the effect of adrenalectomy/castration on the fluvoxamine-induced increase in prefrontal dopamine levels. Co-administration of osemozotan and (+)-SKF-10,047 did not affect the expression of the neuronal activity marker c-Fos in the prefrontal cortex, ventral tegmental area, and nucleus accumbens in control mice, while it increased the c-Fos expression only in the prefrontal cortex and ventral tegmental area in picrotoxin-treated mice. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the GABAA receptor plays a key role in mediating the synergistic effects of 5-HT1A and sigma1 receptor activation on prefrontal dopamine neurotransmission.

