Mongeau, R., et al. (1994). "EFFECTS OF LONG-TERM ALPHA-2-ADRENERGIC ANTAGONISTS AND ELECTROCONVULSIVE TREATMENTS ON THE ALPHA-2-ADRENOCEPTORS MODULATING SEROTONIN NEUROTRANSMISSION." Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics 269(3): 1152-1159.

	Previous results from our laboratory indicate that small doses of the alpha-2 adrenergic agonist clonidine increase serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission by attenuating the release of endogenous norepinephrine (NE), as a result of the activation of alpha-2 adrenergic autoreceptors on NE neurons, and that high doses decrease 5-HT neurotransmission by activating directly alpha-2 adrenergic heteroreceptors on 5-HT terminals. In addition, we have shown that long-term treatments with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor or a selective NE, but not a 5-HT, reuptake inhibitor abolish the effect of a high dose of clonidine, but not that of a small dose of clonidine. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the alpha-2 adrenergic antagonists idazoxan (10 mg/kg/day x 21 days s.c.) and mianserin (5 mg/kg/day x 21 days s.c.), or electroconvulsive shocks (6 or 7 over a 2-week period) would also affect the alpha-2 adrenoceptors modulating 5-HT neurotransmission in the rat hippocampus. The responsiveness of these hetereceptors was tested in parallel with those of the terminal 5-HT1B autoreceptors and of the postsynaptic 5-HT1A and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors. None of the above treatments altered the responsiveness of the 5-HT1B autoreceptors, as assessed by comparing the differential effectiveness of 1 and 5 Hz electrical stimulations of the 5-HT pathway. Idazoxan and mianserin did not affect the responsiveness of the postsynaptic 5-HT1A and alpha-2 adrenergic receptors as indicated by the unchanged suppressant effects of microiontophoretically applied 5-HT and NE, However, these alpha-2 adrenergic antagonists markedly decreased the reducing effect of 400 mu g/kg i.v. of clonidine on the efficacy of the stimulation of the 5-HT pathway, indicating a desensitization of the alpha-2 adrenergic heteroreceptors on 5-HT terminals. Furthermore, the tonic inhibitory action of endogenous NE on these heteroreceptors was apparently weaker, because the enhancing effect of 10 mu g/kg i.v. of clonidine also was reduced after long-term treatment with these two antagonists. In contrast, these above effects were not induced by repeated electroconvulsive shocks. Consistent with previous findings, the latter treatment increased the efficacy of the stimulation of the 5-HT pathway as well as the suppressant effect of microiontophoretically applied 5-HT, without altering that of NE.

