Perry, C. K., et al. (2020). "Synthesis of novel 5-substituted-2-aminotetralin analogs: 5-HT1A and 5-HT7 G protein-coupled receptor affinity, 3D-QSAR and molecular modeling." Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry 28(3).

	The serotonin 5-HT7 G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) is a proposed pharmacotherapeutic target for a variety of central and peripheral indications, albeit, there are no approved drugs selective for binding 5-HT7. We previously reported that a lead analog based on the 5-substituted-N,N-disubstituted-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-2-amine (5-substituted-2-aminotetralin, 5-SAT) scaffold binds with high affinity at the 5-HT7 GPCR, and can treat symptoms of autism in mouse models; subsequently, the lead was found to have high affinity at the 5-HT1A GPCR. Herein, we report the synthesis of novel 5-SAT analogs to develop a 3-dimensional quantitative structure-affinity relationship (3D-QSAR) at the human 5-HT7 receptor for comparison with similar studies at the highly homologous 5-HT1A receptor. We report 35 new 5-SAT ligands, some with very high affinity (K-i <= 1 nM) and stereoselectivity at 5-HT7 + or 5-HT1A receptors, several with modest selectivity (up to 12-fold) for binding at 5-HT7, and, several ligands with high selectivity (up to 40-fold) at the 5-HT1A receptor. 3D-QSAR results indicate that steric extensions at the C(5)-position improve selectivity for the 5-HT7 over 5-HT1A receptor, while steric and hydrophobic extensions at the chiral C(2)-amino position impart 5-HT1A selectivity. In silico receptor homology modeling studies, supplemented with molecular dynamics simulations and binding free energy calculations, were used to rationalize experimentally-determined receptor selectivity and stereoselective affinity results. The data from these studies indicate that the 5-SAT chemotype, previously shown to be safe and efficacious in rodent paradigms of neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders, is amenable to structural modification to optimize affinity at serotonin 5-HT7 vs. 5-HT1A GPCRs, as may be required for successful clinical translation.

