Ogren, S. O., et al. (2006). "Galanin receptor antagonists - A potential novel pharmacological treatment for mood disorders." Cns Drugs 20(8): 633-654.

	The pathophysiology of mood disorders involves several genetic and social predisposing factors, as well as a dysregulated response to chronic stress. Accumulated evidence during the last two decades has implicated disturbances in brain serotonin and/or noradrenaline (norepinephrine) neurotransmission in the aetiology of depression. In fact, current pharmacological treatment for mood disorders is based on the use of drugs that act mainly by enhancing brain serotonin and noradrenaline neurotransmission by blockade of the active reuptake mechanism for these neurotransmitters. However, current antidepressant drugs have a delayed onset of therapeutic action, and a substantial number of patients do not respond adequately to them. In addition, these drugs have a number of adverse effects that limit patient compliance. In view of this, there is an intense search to identify novel (receptor) targets for antidepressant therapy. Recent studies have indicated that several neuropeptides and their receptors are potential candidates for the development of novel antidepressant treatment. In this context, galanin is of particular interest, since it is co-localised with serotonin in the dorsal raphe nucleus and with noradrenaline in the locus coeruleus, nuclei known to play a major role in affective disorders and in the action of antidepressant drugs. The actions of galanin are mediated by three receptor subtypes (GAL1, GAL2 and GAL3), which are coupled to different intracellular effector systems. Studies in rats have shown that galanin administered intracerebroventricularly is a potent inhibitor of mesencephalic serotonergic neurotransmission, as indicated by a long-lasting reduction in the release of serotonin in the hippocampus. This inhibitory effect is related to activation of the galanin receptors located on the dorsal raphe neurons. Moreover, intracerebroventricular galanin alters the gene expression of serotonin 5-HT1A autoreceptors in the dorsal raphe and also changes their functional activity. In addition, galanin produces a functional blockade of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor-mediated responses. Both pharmacological and genetic studies suggest a role for galanin in depression-like behaviour in rodent models. Transgenic mice overexpressing galanin under the control of the platelet-derived growth factor-beta promoter display increased immobility in the forced swim test. Intracerebroventricular administration of galanin in the rat increases depression-like behaviour, and this is fully blocked by the nonselective peptide galanin receptor antagonist M35. Importantly, M35 alone administered intracerebroventricularly produces an antidepressant-like effect. Recently, newly developed receptor-specific nonpeptidergic galanin GAL3 receptor antagonists (SNAP-37889 and SNAP-398299), which cross the blood-brain barrier after systemic administration, have shown antidepressant-like activity in several animal models. On the other hand, stimulation of the GAL2 receptor at the raphe level by local application of the GAL2 receptor agonist galanin (2-11) has been shown to increase serotonin levels in the hippocampus and dorsal raphe. These results indicate an important (mainly inhibitory) role of galanin as a regulator of brain serotonin and 5-HT1A receptor-mediated transmission, which may be of potential importance for understanding mood disorders and for the development of antidepressant drugs.

