Odagaki, Y., et al. (2019). "Optimization and pharmacological characterization of receptor-mediated G(i/o) activation in postmortem human prefrontal cortex." Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology 124(6): 649-659.

	The biochemical abnormalities in transmembrane signal transduction mediated through G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have been postulated as underlying pathophysiology of psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia and mood disorders. In the present study, the experimental conditions of agonist-induced [S-35]GTP gamma S binding in postmortem human brain membranes were optimized, and the responses induced by a series of agonists were pharmacologically characterized. The [S-35]GTP gamma S binding assay was performed in postmortem human prefrontal cortical membranes by means of filtration techniques, and standardized as to GDP concentration, membrane protein content, MgCl2 and NaCl concentrations in assay buffer, incubation period and effect of white matter contamination. Under the standard assay conditions, the specific [S-35]GTP gamma S binding was stimulated by the addition of 15 compounds in a concentration-dependent manner. Of these agonists, R(+)-8-OH-DPAT, UK-14,304, DAMGO and DPDPE showed apparently biphasic concentration-response curves. As for these four responses, only higher-potency site was pharmacologically characterized. The receptors involved in the responses investigated were 5-HT1A receptor (probed with R(+)-8-OH-DPAT or 5-HT), alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor (UK-14,304 or (-)-epinephrine), M-2/M-4 mAChRs (carbachol), adenosine A(1) receptor (adenosine), histamine H-3 receptor (histamine), group II mGlu (l-glutamate), GABA(B) receptor (baclofen), mu-opioid receptor (DAMGO or endomophin-1), delta-opioid receptor (DPDPE or SNC-80) and NOP (nociceptin). Although dopamine also activated specific [S-35]GTP gamma S binding, this response was likely mediated via alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor, but not dopamine receptor subtypes. The present study provides us with fundamental aspects of the strategy for elucidation of probable abnormalities of neural signalling mediated by G proteins activated through multiple GPCRs in the brain of psychiatric patients.

