McCormick, D. A. and Z. Wang (1991). "Serotonin and noradrenaline excite GABAergic neurones of the guinea-pig and cat nucleus reticularis thalami." J Physiol 442: 235-255.

	1. The actions of serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) in the cat perigeniculate nucleus (PGN) and the guinea-pig nucleus reticularis thalami (NRT) were investigated with extracellular and intracellular recordings obtained from neurones in thalamic slices maintained in vitro. 2. Single, local application of either 5-HT or NA resulted in pronounced (5-50 Hz) and prolonged (2-10 min) excitation associated with the occurrence of single-spike activity. Serotoninergic excitation was specifically blocked by the 5-HT2/5-HT1C antagonists ketanserin and ritanserin, but not by the 5-HT1A antagonist pindolol or the 5-HT3 antagonist ICS 205-930. Furthermore, the 5-HT response was mimicked by alpha-methyl-5-HT, but not by the 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin (8-OHDPAT) or the 5-HT3 agonist 2-methyl-5-HT. Together, these results indicate that this excitatory response is mediated through 5-HT2 receptors with the possible involvement of 5-HT1C receptors. 3. Noradrenergic excitation was specifically blocked by the alpha 1-antagonist prazosin, but not by the beta-antagonist propranolol or the alpha 2-antagonist yohimbine. Similarly, the response was mimicked by the alpha-agonist phenylephrine, but not by the beta-agonist isoprenaline. These results indicate that the noradrenergic excitation is mediated by alpha 1-adrenoceptors. 4. Block of synaptic transmission either by lowering external calcium concentration ([Ca2+]o) to 0.5 mM and raising external magnesium concentration ([Mg2+]o) to 10 mM or by local application of tetrodotoxin failed to block the excitatory or depolarizing response to 5-HT or NA indicating that these responses are direct and not mediated through the release of other neurotransmitters. 5. Intracellular recordings revealed that the 5-HT- and NA-induced excitations are mediated by a pronounced slow depolarization associated with an apparent decrease in input conductance and an increase in the membrane time constant. Current versus voltage plots obtained under voltage clamp before and during the presence of 5-HT and NA revealed that these neurotransmitters induced an inward current which reversed to an outward current at -107 and -110 mV, respectively, in 2.5 mM external potassium concentration ([K+]o). This reversal potential was identical to that associated with an increase in potassium conductance activated by acetylcholine (-110 mV) in the same neurones. Plots of the amplitude of the 5-HT- or NA-induced current versus membrane potential revealed a linear relationship in the voltage range from -140 to -60 mV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

