Meadows, S. M., et al. (2018). "Diverse serotonin actions of vilazodone reduce l-3,4-dihidroxyphenylalanine-induced dyskinesia in hemi-parkinsonian rats." Mov Disord 33(11): 1740-1749.

	BACKGROUND: The serotonergic system is a well-established modulator of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia. To date, targeting serotonin transporters or serotonin receptor subtype 1A (5-HT1A ) reduces l-dopa-induced dyskinesia in animal models; however, these strategies have failed to translate clinically. Ideally, a compound acting at both known antidyskinetic sites could optimize serotonin-mediated approaches. Vilazodone is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor and a partial 5-HT1A agonist approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, situating Vilazodone in a unique position to reduce l-dopa-induced dyskinesia without compromising l-dopa-mediated motor improvements. OBJECTIVES: The goal of the present study was to characterize Vilazodone's effects on l-dopa-induced behaviors, neurochemistry and gene expression in unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned hemi-parkinsonian rats. METHODS: In experiments 1 and 2, l-dopa-naive and l-dopa-primed animals were coadministered Vilazodone and l-dopa daily for 3 weeks to model subchronic use, and behavioral, neurochemical, and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression changes were measured. In experiment 3, dyskinetic behavior was assessed following 5-HT1A or serotonin receptor subtype 1B blockade prior to Vilazodone-l-dopa coadministration. RESULTS: Vilazodone significantly suppressed developing and established l-dopa-induced dyskinesia without compromising the promotor effects of l-dopa therapy. In the dopamine-depleted striatum, Vilazodone-l-dopa cotreatment increased dopamine content, suggesting a normalization of dopamine kinetics in dyskinetic brain, and reduced l-dopa-induced c-Fos and preprodynorphin mRNA overexpression, indicative of attenuated dopamine D1 receptor-mediated direct pathway overactivity. Only 5-HT1A antagonism partially attenuated Vilazodone's antidyskinetic efficacy, suggesting both serotonin transporter-dependent effects and 5-HT1A receptors in Vilazodone's actions. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show Vilazodone has a serotonin-dependent effect on rodent l-dopa-induced dyskinesia and implicate the potential for repositioning Vilazodone against l-dopa-induced dyskinesia development and expression in Parkinson's disease patients. (c) 2018 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

