Miyata, S., et al. (2004). "Diabetes attenuates the antidepressant-like effect mediated by the activation of 5-HT1A receptor in the mouse tail suspension test." Neuropsychopharmacology 29(3): 461-469.

	Several lines of evidence have indicated that the prevalence of depression in diabetic subjects is higher than that in the general population, however, little information is available on the effects of antidepressants in diabetes. In the present study, the antidepressant-like effect mediated by the activation of 5-HT1A receptors was examined using the tail suspension test in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice. Long-lasting increases in 5-HT turnover rates were observed in the diabetic mouse midbrain and frontal cortex, but not in the hippocampus. Duration of immobility was significantly longer in diabetic than in nondiabetic mice in the tail suspension test. The 5-HT1A receptor agonist ()-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (3-30 mug/kg, ip) reduced the duration of immobility in nondiabetic mice, and this effect was completely antagonized by pretreatment with N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenil)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide (WAY-100635) (30 mug/kg, s.c.), a selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist. In contrast, 8-OH-DPAT (3 mug/kg-3 mg/kg, i.p.) was ineffective in diabetic mice. The selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine (3-56 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced the duration of immobility in both nondiabetic and diabetic mice. However, fluoxetine was less effective in diabetic mice than in nondiabetic mice. WAY-100635 (30 mug/kg, s.c.) reversed the suppression of the duration of immobility by fluoxetine (30 mg/kg, i.p.) in nondialbetic mice. On the other hand, the anti-immobility effect of fluoxetine (56 mg/kg, i.p.) was not antagonized by WAY-100635 (30 mug/kg, s.c.) in diabetic mice. The selective 5-HT2 receptor antagonist 6-methyl-1-(1-methylethyl)-ergoline-8beta-carboxylic acid 2-hydroxy-1-methylpropyl ester (LY53,857) (30 mug/kg, s.c.) reversed the anti-immobility effect of fluoxetine in both nondialbetic and diabetic mice. Spontaneous loconnotor activity in diabetic mice was not different from that in nondiabetic mice. 8-OH-DPAT (30 mug/kg, i.p.), but not fluoxetine, increased the spontaneous locomotor activity in both nondialbetic and diabetic mice. The number of 5-HT1A receptors in the mouse frontal cortex was unaffected by diabetes. Plasma corticosterone levels in diabetic mice were significantly higher than that in nondialbetic mice. These results suggest that the antidepressant-like effect mediated by 5-HT1A receptors may be attenuated by diabetes.

