Mehta, H., et al. (2005). "Evidence for the involvement of central serotonergic mechanisms in cholinergic tremor induced by tacrine in Balb/c mice." Behav Brain Res 163(2): 227-236.

	Tacrine is a potent and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in the brain. It produces tremor in animals, which is believed to be due to an increase in the brain acetylcholine level following AChE inhibition. The present study was undertaken to investigate the involvement, if any, of biogenic amines in the genesis of this motor dysfunction. Administration of tacrine (10-20 mg/kg, i.p.) produced dose- and time-dependent tremor in Balb/c mice. While in vivo inhibition of striatal AChE activity was observed only for the highest dose of tacrine, a dose-dependent increase in striatal choline acetyltransferase activity was obtained. Serotonin (5-HT) levels, as assayed following a sensitive HPLC-electrochemical procedure, were significantly increased in nucleus caudatus putamen, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, nucleus raphe dorsalis, olivary nucleus and the cerebellum. However, dopamine or norepinephrine levels remained unaltered in these areas of the brain. In animals treated with p-chlorophenylalanine, a specific tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor and 5-HT depletor, tacrine failed to elevate the levels of 5-HT in the brain regions, and significantly attenuated tremor response to the drug. Tacrine-induced tremor was also significantly (83%) attenuated by 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonist mianserin (5 mg/kg, i.p.), but methysergide (5 mg/kg, i.v.) could block tacrine-induced tremor only by 20%. Atropine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) antagonized tacrine-induced tremor by about 53%, but a combination of atropine and mianserin completely blocked the tremor response. These results indicate that the cholinergic tremor produced by tacrine in Balb/c mice is mediated via central serotonergic mechanisms, and stimulation of 5-HT2A/2c receptors plays a pivotal role in this motor dysfunction. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

