Niedzielak, T., et al. (2020). "5-HT1A and α2 adrenergic receptor levels are associated with high anxiety-like patterns and impulsivity in selectively bred Long Evans rats." Behav Brain Res 383: 112522.

	Impulsivity and anxiety are psychological traits involved in many aspects of the drug addiction cycle. However, few preclinical models exist for examining both impulsive and anxiety patterns. In the current study, we investigated whether 6(th) generation rats selectively bred for high anxiety (HAn)-like behavior would display amphetamine (AMPH) hyperactivity. In the same generational line, we also determined if HAn animals would display impulsivity in an operant task. Filial 5 male Long Evans rats phenotyped as HAn and low anxiety (LAn) were tested on the elevated plus maze (EPM) and in locomotor chambers following a low dose of AMPH (0.5 mg/kg, IP). Next, a separate group of F5 animals was exposed to a differential reinforcement of low rate of responding (DRL: 30 s) operant schedule to assess impulsivity. Postmortem, 5-HT1A and α2 adrenergic receptor protein levels were measured in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), nucleus accumbens (NAc) core and shell, and α2 adrenergic counts were assessed in the locus coeruleus (LC), and the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. F5 outbred HAn rats had decreased percent open arm time and entries on the EPM and elevated AMPH-induced locomotion. In the DRL, HAn rats displayed an impulsive profile, they attained fewer total rewards, had more inter-response times, and showed greater burst ratios. We found that HAn rats had a higher number of 5-HT1A receptor immunostained cells in the mPFC but were not different than LAn in NAc core or shell. By contrast, levels of the α2 adrenergic receptor protein were no different in the mPFC while HAn rats had greater levels in the LC and lower levels in the PVN. Overall, these data further validate our outbred trait anxiety rats: HAn males show anxiety-like behavior, AMPH hypersensitivity, greater impulsivity, and varying levels of limbic and midbrain 5-HT1A and α2 adrenergic receptor proteins.

