Nunes-de-Souza, V., et al. (2011). "Blockade of 5-HT(2) receptors in the periaqueductal grey matter (PAG) abolishes the anxiolytic-like effect of 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonism in the median raphe nucleus in mice." Behav Brain Res 225(2): 547-553.

	Several lines of evidence support the involvement of serotonergic (5-HT) neurons of the median raphe nucleus (MRN) in anxiety-like behaviour. In this context, it is known that blockade of 5-HT(1A) somatodendritic autoreceptors in the midbrain raphe nuclei increases the firing rate of these neurons, disinhibiting 5-HT release in postsynaptic target areas such as amygdala, hippocampus and periaqueductal grey matter (PAG). However, while activation of 5-HT(1A) or 5-HT(2) receptors in forebrain targets such as the amygdala or hippocampus enhances anxiety-like behaviours in rodents, stimulation of both receptor subtypes in the midbrain PAG markedly reduces anxiety-like behaviour. In view of these findings, the present study investigated whether the anti-anxiety effects induced by pharmacological disinhibition of 5-HT neurons in the MRN are attenuated by the blockade of 5-HT(2) receptors within the PAG. Mice received combined intra-PAG injection with ketanserin (10 nmol/0.1 μl), a 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist, followed by intra-MRN injection of WAY-100635 (5.6 nmol/0.1 μl), a highly selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist. They were then individually exposed to the elevated plus-maze (EPM), with the videotaped behavioural sessions subsequently scored for both conventional and ethological measures. The results confirmed that intra-MRN infusion of WAY100635 reduces behavioural indices of anxiety without significantly altering general activity measures, and further showed that this effect was completely blocked by intra-PAG pretreatment with an intrinsically-inactive dose of ketanserin. Together, these results suggest that 5HT(2) receptor populations located within the midbrain PAG play a significant role in the reduction of anxiety observed following disinhibition of 5-HT neurons in the MRN.

