Mijnster, M. J., et al. (1997). "Regional and cellular distribution of serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine2a receptor mRNA in the nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, and caudate putamen of the rat." J Comp Neurol 389(1): 1-11.

	This paper describes the regional and cellular distribution of serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine2a (5-HT2a) receptor mRNA in (sub)regions of the rat striatum by using in situ hybridization. Our results indicate that 5-HT2a mRNA is distributed heterogeneously in this brain region. Regional densitometry of autoradiograms from striatal sections hybridized with isotope-labeled cRNA probes showed that mRNA levels were highest in the olfactory tubercle, lower in the nucleus accumbens, and lowest in the caudate-putamen. In the nucleus accumbens, the average mRNA levels in the shell were higher than those in the core. These data suggest a particular relevance for the 5-HT2a receptor for olfactory tubercle- and shell-related functions. Therefore, in the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle, the cellular localization of 5-HT2a mRNA was investigated by determining the colocalization of 5-HT2a mRNA with enkephalin mRNA or dynorphin mRNA. 5-HT2a mRNA was found in enkephalinergic as well as dynorphinergic neurons. Thus, there does not seem to be a differential distribution of this receptor in the output routes of the ventral striatum. In all of the subregions investigated (core, medial shell, and lateral shell of the nucleus accumbens and the olfactory tubercle), only subpopulations of the total enkephalinergic and dynorphinergic populations were found to contain 5-HT2a mRNA. For enkephalin, the percentage colocalization was higher in the lateral shell (61%) compared with the other subregions (38-45%). For dynorphin, the percentage colocalization was higher in the olfactory tubercle (68%) than in the other subregions (34-43%). The differences in (sub)regional mRNA levels and in colocalization with opioids suggest a considerable regional differentiation in the effects of 5-HT2a-mediated neurotransmission in the striatum.

