Mork, A. (1993). "ACTIONS OF LITHIUM ON THE CYCLIC-AMP SIGNALING SYSTEM IN VARIOUS REGIONS OF THE BRAIN - POSSIBLE RELATIONS TO ITS PSYCHOTROPIC ACTIONS - A STUDY ON THE ADENYLATE-CYCLASE IN RATE CEREBRAL-CORTEX, CORPUS STRIATUM AND HIPPOCAMPUS." Pharmacol Toxicol 73: 1-47.

	It has been estimated that in most industrialized countries 1 person out of every 1000 in the population is undergoing lithium treatment to stabilize their episodic mood disturbances due to manic-depressive illness. Lithium may stabilize mood swings by altering the action of certain neurotransmitters at the synaptic level in the brain. Recent research suggests that lithium alters neurotransmission by affecting neurotransmitter-coupled second messenger systems. A major second messenger system is the adenylate cyclase, which generates intracellular cAMP from ATP. The adenylate cyclases (type I-IV) are regulated by stimulatory and inhibitory receptors, which either stimulate or inhibit the adenylate cyclase activity. The stimulatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter-receptor signals are transferred to the catalytic unit of the adenylate cyclase by G(s) and G(i), respectively. The activated receptor induces GTP stimulation of the heterotrimeric G protein, leading to a dissociation of the protein into the active alpha(*GTP) and the beta gamma complex. The former stimulates the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase. The stimulation is terminated by a GTPase located on the ct subunit that converts GTP to inactive GDP. At present, G proteins are known to play a central role in coupling receptors to effector proteins. In addition to extracellular regulation due to neurotransmitters, some adenylate cyclases (type I, III) are regulated by CaM as a consequence of enhanced intracellular concentrations of free Ca2+ The Ca2+-dependentstimulation of adenylate cyclase by CaM is assumed to occur by a direct effect on the catalytic unit. The catalytic units sensitive to Ca2+-CaM are also subjected to regulation by stimulatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter stimuli. Magnesium is essential for adenylate cyclase activity, since MgATP(2-) is the enzyme substrate. Furthermore, one Mg2+ site located on the G protein regulates both the receptor agonist affinity and the dissociation of the G protein during the activation cycle, A second Mg2+ site on the catalytic unit is responsible for Mg2+ regulation of the catalytic activity. The present work aimed at investigating the mechanisms by which lithium in vitro and after chronic treatment (ex vivo) affects adenylate cyclase activities in various regions of the rat brain. Lithium in vitro and ex vivo inhibited the selective stimulation of adenylate cyclase by Ca2+-CaM in the cerebral cortex. Furthermore, lithium in vitro interacted directly with the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase. The data suggest that the in vitro action of lithium on the adenylate cyclase activity stimulated through the receptor, G(s) or the catalytic unit is due to a displacement of Mg2+ from the cation site, which modulates the catalytic activity. However, the lithium-Mg2+ interaction did not seem to be involved in the ex vivo action of lithium. Accordingly, the in vitro and ex vivo effects of lithium on the cAMP production were exerted by distinct mechanisms. The present work, furthermore, revealed that lithium ex vivo exerts region-specific effects in the rat brain. Thus, after chronic lithium treatment Ca2+-CaM-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity was decreased in the cerebral cortex and corpus striatum, but increased in the hippocampus. Similarly, lithium ex vivo decreased isoprenaline- and dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in the cerebral cortex and corpus striatum, respectively; but tended to increase 5-HT-stimulated adenylate cyclase in the hippocampus. The latter actions were dependent on the concentrations of GTP. This indicates that lithium affects the receptor-G(s) coupling or the receptor-induced stimulation of G(s). Lithium did not seem to affect the rate of activation of G(s). In hippocampus, lithium ex vivo was found to attenuate 5-HT-induced G(i) inhibition of Ca2+-CaM-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. This 5-HT-mediated inhibition of adenylate cyclase was demonstrated to be mediated through the 5-HT1A receptor subtype.

