Mos, J., et al. (1991). "THE EFFECTS OF IDAZOXAN AND 8-OH-DPAT ON SEXUAL-BEHAVIOR AND ASSOCIATED ULTRASONIC VOCALIZATIONS IN THE RAT." Neurosci Biobehav Rev 15(4): 505-510.

	Two experiments were performed studying the effects of 8-OH-DPAT and idazoxan on sexual behaviour and ultrasonic communication of male rats. In addition, the reactions of the females towards drug-treated males were studied. 8-OH-DPAT (a very specific 5-HT1A agonist) and idazoxan (an alpha-2-adrenergic antagonist) differentially affected sexual behaviour. 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg IP) markedly facilitated ejaculations, a feature indicated by decreased numbers of mounts and intromissions preceding ejaculation and a reduction in ejaculation latency. This drug concomitantly reduced the postejaculatory refractory period. Idazoxan reduced the number of intromissions before ejaculation only at the highest dose (10 mg/kg IP), but did not markedly facilitate other parameters. Both drugs markedly and dose-dependently suppressed the postejaculatory 22 kHz ultrasounds normally recorded during the postejaculatory refractory period. Ultrasound frequencies above 30 kHz first appear at the end of the absolute refractory period, even when the refractory period is shortened by 8-OH-DPAT. Idazoxan increased the number of these 30 kHz ultrasounds, whereas 8-OH-DPAT had no effect on them. No effects were observed on ultrasound production (either 22 kHz or above 30 kHz) before an ejaculation. The behaviour of the females towards 8-OH-DPAT-treated males was also affected, with the females showing more darting and lordosis before and after ejaculation, but less sitting after ejaculation. Idazoxan treatment of the males resulted in more hopping and earwiggling of the females before ejaculation. Following ejaculation, females treated with the antagonist showed more darting, hopping, earwiggling and lordosis, but sitting was decreased. It has been suggested in the rat that the emergence of ultrasounds higher than 30 kHz indicates the end of the absolute refractory period and signals to the female that the male is capable of resuming sexual activity. The significance of 22 kHz ultrasound in sexual behaviour remains puzzling because these vocalizations could be easily uncoupled from the refractory period by drugs acting via different receptor mechanisms without disturbing sexual behaviour per se. A failure to produce postejaculatory sounds appears to disinhibit (proceptive) behaviour by the females.

