Pelletier, J., et al. (1999). "Sheep 5HT2A receptors: partial cloning of the coding sequence and mRNA localization by in situ hybridization in the ewe hypothalamus." Cell and Tissue Research 295(2): 231-239.

	Serotonin and serotonin receptors of class II (5HT2-R) are thought to be involved in the neural mecha nisms which regulate the LH release associated with photoperiodic changes in sheep. A specific premammillary hypothalamic area displaying a significant binding of H-3-ketanserin, a potent 5HT2-R antagonist, was previously identified. The aim of the present study was to ascertain by in situ hybridization (ISH) that 5HT2-R mRNA-containing cells were also present in this specific hypothalamic area. Total RNA was prepared from sheep pars tuberalis/median eminence, and a cDNA fragment of 546 bp was amplified by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using degenerated primers deduced from the human and rat 5HT2A-R sequences. After cloning and sequencing, the sheep nucleotide sequence had the highest homology (85.1-92.3%) with the other known mammalian 5HT2-R or 5HT2A-R sequences. Homology with other 5HT-R subtypes or other monoamine receptors was much lower, 60% at maximum. After ISH using sense and antisense S-35-riboprobes, specific labelling was found in different parts of the hypothalamus, especially in the mammillary bodies where the binding was higher. Within the hypothalamus, the density of labelled cells, mainly neurons, varied considerably. It was maximal in the mammillary bodies and also in a restricted ventral region of the premammillary hypothalamus located from about 500/700 mu m to 1200/1400 mu m in front of the mammillary recess, where 3H-ketanserin binding was previously reported. In conclusion: (1) the structural study of the sequence indicated that the new cloned cDNA corresponds to the sheep 5HT2-R class and, probably, to the 5HT2A-R subtype and (2) the ISH studies revealed that a restricted area of the premammillary hypothalamus shows a large number of 5HT2-R mRNA-containing neurons.

