Nishi, K., et al. (2009). "Both acute and chronic buspirone treatments have different effects on regional 5-HT synthesis in Flinders Sensitive Line rats (a rat model of depression) than in control rats." Neurochemistry International 54(3-4): 205-214.

	The main objective of this investigation was to evaluate the effects of buspirone, a 5-HT1A agonist with some partial agonist properties and also an antidepressant, on regional 5-HT synthesis in Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats ("depressed"), and to compare the effects to the Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) control rats (not "depressed"). In addition results were compared to those previously reported in normal Sprague-Dawley (SPD) rats (normal control). Serotonin synthesis in both FSL and FRL rats was measured following acute and chronic treatments with buspirone. Both of these strains were derived from the SPD rats. No direct comparison was done between the FSL saline and FRIL saline groups, or the FSL buspirone and FRL buspirone groups, because the objective of the studies was to evaluate effects of buspirone in these two strains. The results show that acute treatment with buspirone elevates 5-HT synthesis throughout the brain in the FRL rats. In the FSL rats, there were reductions in some brain regions (e.g., dorsal and median raphe, amygdala, anterior olfactory nucleus, substantia nigra reticulate), while in other regions, there were increases in the synthesis observed (e.g., frontal, parietal, visual and somatosensory cortices, ventral hippocampus). In 20 out of the 30 brain regions investigated in the FSL rats, there was no significant change in the synthesis following acute buspirone treatment. During the chronic treatment, buspirone produced a significant reduction of 5-HT synthesis in 15 out of 30 brain regions in the FRIL rats. In the FSL rats, buspirone produced a significant elevation of the synthesis in 10 out of 30 brain regions. In both the FSL and FRL rats, buspirone produced rather different effects than those reported previously for SPD (normal) rats. The acute effect in the FSL rats was somewhat similar to the effect reported previously for the SPD rats, while in the FRL rats, the acute buspirone treatment produced an effect observed previously in treatments with 5-HT1A antagonists suggesting an action of buspirone as partial agonist in FRL rats. The data suggest that with respect to 5-HT synthesis, FRL rats differ from SPD rats (a natural control; normal rats) and, as such, indicate that when the effects related to the serotonergic system (e.g., influence of serotonergic drugs) are studied in the FSL rats and compared to those in the FRL rats, any conclusions drawn may not reflect differences relative to a normal rat. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

