Olausson, P., et al. (2001). "Behavioral and neurochemical consequences of repeated nicotine treatment in the serotonin-depleted rat." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 155(4): 348-361.

	Rationale: Repeated exposure to addictive drugs causes neuroadaptive alterations that are proposed to increase the incentive motivation to consume drugs and to decrease the ability to inhibit such inappropriate motivational impulses and responses. Together, these behavioral consequences of drug intake may underlie the compulsive drug-seeking and -taking behaviors observed in drug abuse. Objective. Brain serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in these mechanisms and this study therefore investigated the consequences of brain 5-HT depletion on the behavioral and neurochemical effects induced by repeated daily nicotine treatment (15 days) in male rats. Methods: The effects of the present pharmacological manipulations were evaluated behaviorally (locomotor activity, the elevated plus-maze) and neurochemically (microdialysis, brain biochemistry). Results: Depletion of brain 5-HT produced behavioral disinhibition in the elevated plus-maze. In 5-HT-depleted, nicotine-induced locomotor sensitization was on treatment days 5, 10, and 15, but only on day 15 in the sham-operated rats. Postsensitization, the locomotor stimulatory effects of amphetamine and the dopamine receptor agonists SKF 38,393, apomorphine, and quinpirole were decreased in 5-HT-depleted animals, an effect that appeared to be more pronounced in nicotine-treated rats. Repeated nicotine treatment sensitized the nicotine-induced elevation of the extracellular accumbal dopamine levels in sham-operated, but not in 5-HT-depleted rats, and was also associated with decreased D(2) autoreceptor function in both nicotine-treated experimental groups. Conclusions: Depletion of brain 5-HT, which produces behavioral disinhibition, may slightly facilitate the overall expression of locomotor sensitization to nicotine and differentially affect the pre- and postsynaptic neuroadaptive events involved in the expression of these phenomena.

