Bennett, S. and B. Gronier (2007). "Effects of antipsychotic treatments and D-serine supplementation on the electrophysiological activation of midbrain dopamine neurons induced by the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK 801." Synapse 61(8): 679-688.

	The acute administration of the noncompetitive glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK 801) is known to increase central dopaminergic activity in rats and to elicit schizophreniform behavior in human. The current study was undertaken to compare the effects of different acute or chronic neuroleptic treatments, on the response of ventral tegmental area dopamine (DA) neurons to MK 801, using the in vivo electrophysiological paradigm in anesthetized preparations. Sprague Dawley male rats were treated, acutely or chronically during 3 weeks, with saline, olanzapine (10 mg/kg), haloperidol (1 mg/kg) or the combination of haloperidol with D-serine (1 mg/kg/300 mg/kg), a gliotransmitter coagonist of the NMDA receptor that has been shown to improve the efficacy of typical neuroleptics. In control animals, the acute administration of MK 801 (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) increased significantly both the firing and burst activity of DA neurons by 20 and 26%, respectively, the latter effect being partially reversed by the selective 5-HT2A antagonist M 100,907 (0.4 mg/kg, i.v.). The acute preadministration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and olanzapine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to prevent or reverse the activatory effect of MK 801 on firing activity. On the other hand, MK 801-induced burst activity, was partially prevented by olanzapine, but not by haloperidol pretreatment. All antipsychotic treatments, when administered chronically, prevent the activatory effect of MK 801 on both firing and burst activity, and occasionally convert the response to MK 801 on burst activity to an inhibitory response, the latter occurring more predominantly in rats treated with the combination haloperidol/D-serine. These results suggest that a chronic antipsychotic regime alters the function of the NMDA receptors that tonically control the firing activity of midbrain dopaminergic neurons.

