Riekkinen, P., Jr. (1994). "5-HT1A and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors jointly regulate passive avoidance behavior." Eur J Pharmacol 262(1-2): 77-90.

	The present study was designed to investigate the effects of combined stimulation of 5-HT1A or 5-HT2 receptors and blockade of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on passive avoidance behavior. Administration of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, and 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), a 5-HT2 receptor agonist, impaired passive avoidance acquisition (pre-training injections) and consolidation (post-training injections) performance. Ketanserin, a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, blocked the performance-impairing effect of DOI on passive avoidance consolidation. Interestingly, 5-HT receptor agonists may affect passive avoidance consolidation only during the immediate post-training period, as passive avoidance testing performance was not modulated by 8-OH-DPAT or DOI injected 30 min after the training trial. Furthermore, passive avoidance retention (pre-testing injections) performance was impaired only by the highest dose of 8-OH-DPAT, and DOI had no effect on passive avoidance retention. Next, the effects of combined 5-HT and acetylcholine receptor manipulations on passive avoidance behavior were studied. The effects on passive avoidance behavior of a combination of subthreshold doses of scopolamine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, and 8-OH-DPAT were compared to those of a single high dose of scopolamine. A combination of small doses of scopolamine and 8-OH-DPAT impaired acquisition and consolidation of passive avoidance performance, but a single high dose of scopolamine impaired only acquisition performance. The small dose of 8-OH-DPAT also aggravated medial septal lesion-induced passive avoidance acquisition and consolidation failure. The combination of small doses of scopolamine and DOI had no effect on passive avoidance behavior. Peripherally acting scopolamine methylbromide alone or in combination with 8-OH-DPAT had no effect on passive avoidance performance. Motor activity in a swimming pool was altered by single and combined drug treatments; high doses of 8-OH-DPAT and scopolamine, and the combination of small doses of 8-OH-DPAT + scopolamine increased speed of swimming. Medial septum-lesioning also increased speed of swimming but the speed was not increased further by 8-OH-DPAT. The present data suggest that behavioral defect caused by hypostimulation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors is aggravated by concurrent 5-HT1A receptor stimulation.

