Odagaki, Y., et al. (2017). "Functional activation of G alpha(q) coupled to 5-HT2A receptor and M-1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor in postmortem human cortical membranes." J Neural Transm 124(9): 1123-1133.

	Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G-proteins) play a pivotal role in a wide range of signal transduction pathways, and receptor/G-protein coupling has been implicated in the pathophysiology of mental disorders. In this study, guanosine-5'-O-(3-[S-35]thio)triphosphate ([S-35]GTP gamma S) binding/immunoprecipitation assay for G alpha(q) was applied to postmortem human brains. After its optimization for human prefrontal cortical membranes, we selected 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and carbachol as efficient agonists for subsequent experiments. The concentration-response curve of 5-HT shifted towards the right by the addition of increasing concentrations of ketanserin (with a pA(2) value of 9.18), indicating the involvement of the 5-HT2A receptor. Besides, the carbachol-stimulated [S-35]GTP gamma S binding to G alpha(q) was competitively antagonized by telenzepine (with a pA(2) value of 8.81), indicating the involvement of the M-1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR). Concentration-response curves of 5-HT2A receptor- and M-1 mAChR-mediated G alpha(q) activation were determined in 40 subjects. The mean maximum percentage increase (%E-max) was 155 and 470%, respectively, and the mean half-maximal effect concentration (EC50) was 131 nM and 15.2 mu M, respectively. When the pharmacological parameters were correlated with age, postmortem delay, freezing storage period, and tissue pH, no statistically significant correlation was observed except for the negative correlation between age and %E (max) value of carbachol-stimulated [S-35]GTP gamma S binding to G alpha(q). The %E (max) values for 5-HT2A receptor- and M-1 mAChR-mediated G alpha(q) activation also tended to correlate with each other. These results provide fundamental information of G alpha(q)-coupled 5-HT2A receptor and M-1 mAChR in native human brains, and lay the foundation for future studies in mental disorder patients.

