Nakazawa, S., et al. (2013). "Evaluation of dopamine D(2)/D(3) and serotonin 5-HT(2)A receptor occupancy for a novel antipsychotic, lurasidone, in conscious common marmosets using small-animal positron emission tomography." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 225(2): 329-339.

	RATIONALE: Lurasidone is a novel antipsychotic drug with potent binding affinity for dopamine D(2) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)(2A), 5-HT(7), and 5-HT(1A) receptors. Previous pharmacological studies have revealed that lurasidone exhibits a preferable profile (potent antipsychotic activity and lower incidence of catalepsy) to other antipsychotic drugs, although the contribution of receptor subtypes to this profile remains unclear. OBJECTIVES: To compare target engagements of lurasidone with those of an atypical antipsychotic, olanzapine, we performed evaluation of dopamine D(2)/D(3) and serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in vivo by positron emission tomography (PET) with conscious common marmosets. METHODS: We measured brain receptor occupancies in conscious common marmosets after oral administrations of lurasidone or olanzapine by PET with [(11)C]raclopride and [(11)C]R-(+)-alpha-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenylethyl)]-4-piperidine methanol (MDL 100907) for D(2)/D(3) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, respectively. RESULTS: Increases in brain D(2)/D(3) receptor occupancies of both lurasidone and olanzapine, which reached >80 % at maximum, were observed in the striatum with significant correlations to plasma drug levels. However, lurasidone showed lower 5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in the frontal cortex within the same dose range, while olanzapine showed broadly comparable 5-HT(2A) and D(2)/D(3) receptor occupancies. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with olanzapine, lurasidone preferentially binds to D(2)/D(3) receptors rather than 5-HT(2A) receptors in common marmosets. These results suggest that the contribution of in vivo 5-HT(2A) receptor blocking activity to the pharmacological profile of lurasidone might differ from olanzapine in terms of the low risk of extrapyramidal syndrome and efficacy against negative symptoms.

