Natarajan, R., et al. (2017). "Chronic-Stress-Induced Behavioral Changes Associated with Subregion-Selective Serotonin Cell Death in the Dorsal Raphe." J Neurosci 37(26): 6214-6223.

	The current study examined the neurochemical mechanisms and neuroanatomical changes underlying coexisting behavioral effects associated with chronic-stress-induced alterations in serotonin (5HT) neurons. Chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) to adult male rats produced depression-like changes with cognitive dysfunction and selective cell death in the interfascicular nucleus of the dorsal raphe (DRif), resulting in decreased 5HTergic innervation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Twenty-one days of CUS decreased basal plasma levels of corticosterone and produced a shorter latency to immobility and longer durations of immobility in the force-swim test that persisted for 1 month after CUS. Deficits in acquisition, recall, perseveration, and reversal learning were evident 1 month after CUS. MK801 treatment during CUS blocked the changes in the forced-swim test and deficits in memory recall. These behavioral changes were associated with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive soma and the eventual loss of 5HT neurons in the DRif and its projections to the mPFC as evidenced by fewer labeled cells in the DRif after retrograde tracer injections into the mPFC of stressed rats. Similar to the effects of MK801 on behavior, MK801 pretreatment during stress blocked the CUS-induced decreases in 5HT soma within the DRif and its projections to the mPFC. Finally, the depression-like behaviors were blocked by acute injection of the 5HT2A/C agonist (-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride into the mPFC before forced-swim testing. These results identify a cause and mechanism of 5HTergic dysfunction of the mPFC and associated mood and cognitive behaviors.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Chronic stress causes persistent mood and cognitive changes typically associated with dysregulated serotonin (5HT) transmission in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), but the cause of this dysregulation is unknown. Prior studies have focused on 5HTergic terminals in this region, but this study shows that chronic stress causes NMDA-receptor-dependent and subregion-specific cell death of 5HT neurons in the dorsal raphe. The consequent decreased 5HT innervation of the mPFC was associated with mood and cognitive changes that persisted long after the termination of stress. These findings identify a mechanism of subregion-selective death of 5HT neurons in the dorsal raphe, a defined neuroanatomical pathway, and a behavioral phenotype that mirror stress-associated diseases such as major depressive disorder.

