Rogers, L. W. and J. Giordano (1990). "Effects of systemically administered monoamine reuptake blocking agents on patterns of buspirone-induced analgesia in rats." Life Sci 47(11): 961-969.

	We have recently shown the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor agonist buspirone to produce analgesia in several pain tests in rats. As a 5-HT1A agonist, buspirone may change serotonergic (5-HT) tone to alter the balance of central monoaminergic (MA) systems that function in analgesia. MA-reuptake blocking drugs have been shown to produce analgesia, both when given alone and in combination with a variety of other agents, presumably via their action upon MA neurochemistry. The present study was undertaken to examine the effect of systemic administration of the 5-HT-reuptake blocker amitriptyline (AMI: 10 mg/kg), NE-reuptake blocker desipramine (DMI: 10 mg/kg) or DA-reuptake blocker GBR-12909 (7.5 mg/kg) on patterns of analgesia produced by buspirone (1-5 mg/kg) in thermal and mechanical pain tests in rats. Neither reuptake blocking agents or buspirone, when administered alone or in combination, produced overt changes in motor activity at the doses tested. AMI alone was not analgesic in either thermal or mechanical pain tests. In both assays, AMI reduced the analgesic action of buspirone, with greater effects seen in the thermal test. When administered alone, DMI produced significant analgesia against thermal and mechanical pain. DMI significantly attenuated the analgesic action of all doses of buspirone in both pain tests. Alone, GBR-12909 did not affect nociception in thermal or mechanical tests. GBR-12909 decreased buspirone-induced analgesia at all doses in the thermal test, while having no effect on buspirone-induced analgesia against mechanical pain. These results demonstrate that facilitation of 5-HT, NE and DA function with reuptake blocking drugs did not enhance the analgesic action of buspirone. These data indicate against the adjuvant use of reuptake blocking compounds and buspirone as analgesics. Furthermore, such findings may suggest other possible non-MA substrates of buspirone-induced analgesia.

