Recinella, L., et al. (2018). "Effects of central RVD-hemopressin(alpha) administration on anxiety, feeding behavior and hypothalamic neuromodulators in the rat." Pharmacological Reports 70(4): 650-657.

	Background: The endocannabinoid (eCB) system is strongly involved in the regulation of anxiety and feeding behavior. RVD-hemopressin(alpha) [RVD-hp(alpha)], a N-terminally extended form of hemopressin, is a negative allosteric modulator of the cannabinoid (CB) 1 receptor and a positive allosteric modulator of CB2 receptor which has been recently reported to exert anxiolytic/antidepressant and anorexigenic effects after peripheral administration in rats. Pharmacological evidences reported a possible link between brain hypocretin/orexin, monoamine and eCB systems, as regards appetite and emotional behavior control. Considering this, the aim of our work was to investigated the effects of RVD-hp(alpha) on anxiety like behavior and food intake after central administration and related it to monoamine levels and orexin-A gene expression, in the hypothalamus. Methods: We have studied the effects of central RVD-hp(alpha) (10 nmol) injection on anxiety-like behavior and feeding using different behavioral tests. Hypothalamic levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and gene expression of orexin-A and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) were measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis, respectively. Results: Central RVD-hp(alpha) administration decreased locomotion activity and stereotypies. Moreover, RVD-hp(alpha) treatment inhibited anxiogenic-like behavior and food intake, NE levels and orexin-A gene expression, in the hypothalamus. Conclusion: Concluding, in the present study we demonstrated that central RVD-hp(alpha) induced anxiolytic and anorexigenic effects possibly related to reduced NE and orexin-A and POMC signaling, in the hypothalamus. These findings further support the central role of the peptide in rat brain thus representing an innovative pharmacological approach for designing new anorexigenic drugs targeting eCB system. (C) 2018 Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

