Odagaki, Y. and R. Toyoshima (2008). "Pharmacological characterization of alpha(2D)-adrenergic receptor-mediated S-35 GTP gamma S binding in rat cerebral cortical membranes." Pharmacol Res 57(6): 435-444.

	Using the rat cerebral cortical membranes that had once been frozen and stored at -80 degrees C, the stimulation of specific guanosine-5'-O-(3-[S-35]thio)triphosphate ([S-35]GTP gamma S) binding mediated through alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors (alpha(2)-ARs) was pharmacologically characterized. The stimulatory effects of (-)-noepinephrine ((-)-NE) and 5-bromo-6-(2-imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline (UK-14,304) at maximally effective concentrations were prominent only in the presence of micromolar to submillimolar levels of GDP, with the greatest signal/noise ratio achieved at 100 and 30-100 mu M GDP for (-)-NE and UK-14,304, respectively. The alpha(2)-AR-mediated [S-35]GTP gamma S binding was also critically dependent on the presence of millimolar concentrations of MgCl2 in assay medium. The maximum stimulation induced by UK-14,304 was equivalent to, or even greater than, that of an endogenous ligand (-)-NE at lower concentrations of NaCl, while it became a partial agonist with higher concentrations of NaCl. Concentration-response curves for several agonists revealed that the omission of NaCl from incubation buffer generally shifted the curves leftward and increased the relative efficacies as compared to the endogenous ligand. The pharmacological profile characterized with a series of adrenergic agonists and antagonists indicated that this response was derived from activation of G proteins coupled with alpha(2)-ARs, in particular alpha(2D)-AR subtype, though the possible involvement of alpha(2C)-ARs was not completely excluded. However, the stimulatory effects of several adrenergic compounds, such as rauwolscine and yohimbine, were ascribed to their agonist properties at 5-HT1A receptors. This method serves as a simple but useful strategy for investigating the functional interaction between alpha(2D)-ARs and their coupled G proteins in rat native cerebral cortical membranes, especially in the field of psychopharmacology and biological psychiatry. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

