Parkel, S., et al. (2011). "Millimolar Mn2+ influences agonist binding to 5-HT1A receptors by inhibiting guanosine nucleotide binding to receptor-coupled G-proteins." Neurotoxicology 32(1): 25-30.

	Manganese is an essential trace element but its overexposure causes poisoning (called manganism) that shares several symptoms with Parkinson's disease, but with a mechanism that is still not well understood: in addition to involvement of the dopaminergic system, both serotonergic and peptiergic systems have been implicated. In the present report we have studied the influence of Mn(2+) on 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling complexes in rat brain and found that Mn(2+) in millimolar concentration caused an increase of high-affinity agonist binding to rat hippocampal membranes in comparison with experiments in the presence of Mg(2+), but not in rat cortical membranes and in Sf9 cell membranes expressing 5-HT(1A) receptors and G(i1) heterotrimers. Activation of G proteins with 30muM GTPgammaS turned all 5-HT(1A) receptors in these preparations into a low-affinity state for agonist binding in the presence of 1mM Mg(2+), but not in the presence of 1mM Mn(2+) in rat hippocampal membranes. However, if 1muM GTPgammaS was used for G protein activation, a substantial amount of high affinity agonist binding was detected in the presence of Mn(2+) also in cortical membranes and Sf9 cells, but not with Mg(2+) or EDTA. Comparison of the abilities of GDP and GTPgammaS to modulate high affinity agonist binding to 5-HT(1A) receptors indicated that both nucleotides were almost 10-fold less potent in the presence of MnCl(2) compared to MgCl(2). This means that by inhibiting guanosine nucleotide binding to G proteins in complex with 5-HT(1A) receptors, Mn(2+) acts as an enhancer for agonist binding and signal transduction. As the influence of Mn(2+) resembles the hypersensitivity of dopaminergic system in Parkinsonial models, it can be proposed that at least some symptoms of manganism are connected with a change of signal transduction complex caused by manganese-nucleotide complexes.

