Neff, N. H., et al. (2006). "Clozapine modulates aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase activity in mouse striatum." Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics 317(2): 480-487.

	Clozapine is efficacious for treating dopaminergic psychosis in Parkinson's disease and ameliorates L-DOPA-induced motor complications. Based on its pharmacology and reported enhancing effects on dopamine metabolism and tyrosine hydroxylase activity, we investigated whether it could modulate the activity of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AAAD), the second enzyme for the biosynthesis of catecholamines and indoleamines. A single dose of clozapine increased AAAD activity of striatum in a dose- and time-dependent manner. At 1 h, enhanced enzyme activity was characterized by an increased V-max for substrate and cofactor and was accompanied by elevated levels of protein in striatum and mRNA in substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, locus coeruleus, and raphe nuclei. Acute clozapine increased tyrosine hydroxylase activity in striatum but with differing temporal patterns from AAAD and heightened dopamine metabolism. Interestingly, the response of the dopaminergic markers to clozapine was greater following a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) lesion. Chronically administered clozapine increased AAAD activity and protein and dopamine metabolism in striatum without affecting tyrosine hydroxylase. Exogenous L-DOPA decarboxylation was accelerated in the striatum of intact and MPTP-lesioned mice following acute clozapine, and the effect was exaggerated in the MPTP mice. To identify receptors involved, antagonists of receptors occupied by clozapine were employed. D4, 5-HT1(A), and 5-HT2(A), in addition to D1, D2, and D3, antagonists, augmented AAAD activity in striatum, whereas 5-HT2(C), 5-HT3, muscarinic, and alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic antagonists were ineffective. For the first time, these studies provide evidence that clozapine modulates AAAD activity in the brain and suggests that dopamine and serotonin receptors are involved.

