Patel, S., et al. (1995). "LOCALIZATION OF SEROTONIN-4 RECEPTORS IN THE STRIATONIGRAL PATHWAY IN RAT-BRAIN." Neuroscience 69(4): 1159-1167.

	Rats were injected unilaterally with 6-hydroxydopamine either in the medial forebrain bundle or in the dorsolateral substantia nigra. Another group was injected unilaterally with kainate in the striatum. The loss of neurons was assessed by a reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity for dopaminergic neurons, and choline acetyltransferase-like and glutamate decarboxylase-like immuno-reactivities for cholinergic and GABAergic neurons, respectively. Brain sections also were analysed by autoradiography on 20 mu m sections with the radio-iodinated serotonin-4 receptor antagonist [I-125]SB 207710 [Brown A. M. et al. (1993) Br. J. Pharmac. 110, 10P]. Kainate injections in the striatum resulted in loss of choline acetyltransferase- and glutamate decarboxylase-like immunoreactive cell bodies in this area. There was also a decrease in glutamate decarboxylase-like immunoreactivity on the ipsilateral side in the substantia nigra and entopeduncular nucleus. These changes were accompanied by substantial (> 50%) decreases in [I-125]SB 207710 binding in both the ipsilateral striatum (confined to the lesioned area) and substantia nigra, with no change in either the nucleus accumbens or the globus pallidus. There was also significant loss of [I-125]SB 207710 binding in the ipsilateral entopeduncular nucleus. 6-Hydroxydopamine lesions placed either in the medial forebrain bundle or in the substantia nigra failed to decrease [I-125]SB 207710 binding in any of these areas, although there was total loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive terminals in the striatum and cell bodies in the nigra. We conclude that serotonin-4 receptors are present on projection neurons, both on their perikarya in the striatum and terminals in the nigra and entopeduncular nucleus. It is likely that these receptors are located on the GABAergic projection neurons and possibly on cholinergic and GABAergic interneurons. However, serotonin-4 receptors are not located on dopaminergic neurons, either on their cell bodies in the substantia nigra or terminals in the striatum.

