Palego, L., et al. (1997). "Further characterisation of H-3 8-hydroxy-2(di-N-propylamino)tetralin binding sites in human brain postmortem." Neurochem Int 30(2): 149-157.

	The saturation parameters and the pharmacological characteristics of the binding of the serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptor agonist [H-3]8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin ([H-3]8-OH-DPAT), as well as the effects of nucleotides and divalent cations (Mg2+, Mn2+) on it, were compared in some human postmortem brain regions: the main cortical areas, hippocampus and striatum. [H-3]8-OH-DPAT labelled a single population of recognition sites with the highest maximal capacity (B-max) in the hippocampus and the lowest affinity in the striatum. Among the Various cortical areas, the frontal cortex exhibited the highest B-max. The pharmacological profile of the [H-3]8-OH-DPAT binding sites was consistent with the labelling of the 5-HT1A receptor in the hippocampus and cortex, whereas the striatal site shared strong similarity to the presynaptic serotonin transporter. Modulation of [H-3]8-OH-DPAT binding by divalent cations and nucleotides was detectable and stable in autopsy brains. In particular, nucleotide effects were area-dependent: guanosine thiotriphosphate (GTP gamma S) reduced [H-3]8-OH-DPAT binding to the same extent in the hippocampus and frontal cortex, while having no effect in the striatum. Divalent cation effects depended also upon the brain area: in the striatum, they inhibited [H-3]8-OH-DPAT binding, while stimulating it in the hippocampus and, with less extent, in the frontal cortex. In summary, these findings suggest that the [H-3]8-OH-DPAT binding and its modulatory parameters in human brain tissues seem to show similarities but also some differences with respect to those determined in the rat brain. Furthermore, postmortem stability of GTP and divalent cation sensitive 5-HT1A receptors underlines the need for further studies on the regulatory and functional properties of this receptor in the human brain. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd

