Odagaki, Y., et al. (2019). "Functional activation of Galphaq/11 protein via alpha1 -adrenoceptor in rat cerebral cortical membranes." Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol.

	Although it is recognized that alpha1 -adrenoceptors are coupled to diverse intracellular signaling pathways, its primary transduction mechanisms are evoked by activating phospholipase C in the cell membrane through Galphaq/11 , resulting in production of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. However, there have been few studies that indicate directly the involvement of Galphaq/11 proteins in this signaling pathway in the central nervous system. In the current study, we tried to pharmacologically characterize (-)-epinephrine-stimulated [(35) S]GTPgammaS binding to Galphaq/11 in rat brain membranes. Functional activation of Galphaq/11 coupled to alpha1 -adrenoceptor was investigated by using [(35) S]GTPgammaS binding/immunoprecipitation assay in the membranes prepared from rat cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. The specific [(35) S]GTPgammaS binding to Galphaq/11 was stimulated by (-)-epinephrine in a concentration-dependent and saturable manner in rat cerebral cortical membranes. In hippocampal or striatal membranes, the stimulatory effects of (-)-epinephrine were scarce. The effect of (-)-epinephrine was potently inhibited by prazosin, a potent and selective alpha1 -adrenoceptor antagonist, but not by yohimbine, a selective alpha2 -adrenoceptor antagonist. The response was mimicked by cirazoline, but not by R(-)-phenylephrine. Although oxymetazoline also stimulated the specific [(35) S]GTPgammaS binding to Galphaq/11 as an apparent "super-agonist", detailed pharmacological characterization revealed that its agonistic properties in this experimental system were derived from off-target effects on 5-HT2A receptors, but not via alpha1 -adrenoceptors. In conclusion, functional coupling of alpha1 -adrenoceptors to Galphaq/11 proteins are detectable in rat brain membranes by means of [(35) S]GTPgammaS binding/immunoprecipitation assay. It is necessary to interpret the experimental data with caution when oxymetazoline is included as an agonist at alpha1 -adrenoceptors. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

