Sartori, D. P., et al. (2020). "Involvement of monoaminergic targets in the antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects of the synthetic alkamide riparin IV: Elucidation of further mechanisms through pharmacological, neurochemistry and computational approaches." Behavioural Brain Research 383.

	Despite recent advances, current antidepressants have considerable limitations: late onset of action and the high profile of refractoriness. Biomedical research with natural products has gained growing interest in the last years, and had provide useful candidates for new antidepressants. Riparins are a group of natural alkamides obtained from Aniba riparia, which had marked neuroactive effects, mainly as antidepressant and antinociceptive agents. We made modifications of the basic structure of riparins, originating a synthetic alkamide, also known as riparin IV (RipIV). RipIV demonstrated a superior analgesic effect than its congeners and a marked antidepressant-like effect. However, the basic mechanism for the central effects of RipIV remains unknown. Here, we aimed to investigate the participation of monoaminergic neurotransmission targets in the antidepressant-like effects of RipIV. To do this, we applied a combined approach of experimental (classical pharmacology and neurochemistry) and computer-aided techniques. Our results demonstrated that RipIV presented antidepressantand anxiolytic-like effects without modifying locomotion and motor coordination of mice. Also, RipIV increased brain monoamines and their metabolite levels. At the higher dose (100 mg/kg), RipIV increased serotonin concentrations in all studied brain areas, while at the lower one (50 mg/kg), it increased mainly dopamine and noradrenaline levels. When tested with selective receptor antagonists, RipIV antidepressant effect showed dependence of the activation of multiple targets, including D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, 5-HT2A/2, 5-HT3 receptors and alpha 2 adrenergic receptors. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding conformation and affinity of RipIV to monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), serotonin transporter (SERT), alpha 1 receptor, D2 receptor, dopamine transporter (DAT) and at some extent GABA-A receptor. RipIV also presented a computationally predicted favorable pharmacokinetic profile. Therefore, this study demonstrated the involvement of monoaminergic targets in the mechanism of RipIV antidepressant-like action, and provide evidence of it as a promising new antidepressant.

